8288-B

Form
(Rev. December 2025)

Application for Withholding Certificate for Dispositions
by Foreign Persons of U.S. Real Property Interests

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
1

OMB No. 1545-1060

Go to www.irs.gov/Form8288B for the latest information.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN)

Name of transferor (attach additional sheets if more than one transferor)
Street address, apt. or suite no., or rural route. Do not use a P.O. box.
City, state or province, and country (if not U.S.). Include ZIP or foreign postal code where appropriate.

2

TIN

Name of transferee (attach additional sheets if more than one transferee)
Street address, apt. or suite no., or rural route. Do not use a P.O. box.
City, state or province, and country (if not U.S.). Include ZIP or foreign postal code where appropriate.

3
4a

Transferee
Applicant is: Transferor
Name of withholding agent (see instructions)

b

TIN

c

Name of estate, trust, or entity (if applicable)

d

TIN

5

Address where you want withholding certificate sent (street address, apt. or suite no., P.O. box, or rural route number)

Phone number (optional)

City, state or province, and country (if not U.S.). Include ZIP or foreign postal code where appropriate.

6

Description of U.S. real property transaction:
Date of transfer (month, day, year) (see inst.)
b Contract price $
Type of interest transferred:
Real property
Associated personal property
Domestic U.S. real property holding corporation
Rental or commercial
Personal
Other (attach explanation)
d Use of property at time of sale:
e Adjusted basis $
f Location and general description of property (for a real property interest), description (for associated personal property), or the
class or type and amount of the interest (for an interest in a U.S. real property holding corporation). See instructions.
a
c

g For the 3 preceding tax years:
(1) Were U.S. income tax returns filed relating to the U.S. real property interest? .
If “Yes,” when and where were those returns filed?
(2)

7

Were U.S. income taxes paid relating to the U.S. real property interest?
If “Yes,” enter the amount of tax paid for each year

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Yes

No

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

Yes

No

Check the box to indicate the reason a withholding certificate should be issued. See the instructions for information that must
be attached to Form 8288-B.

a
The transferor is exempt from U.S. tax or nonrecognition treatment applies.
b
The transferor’s maximum tax liability is less than the tax required to be withheld.
c
The special installment sales rules described in section 7 of Rev. Proc. 2000-35 allow reduced withholding.
Yes
8
Does the transferor have any unsatisfied withholding liability under section 1445? . . . . . . . . .
See the instructions for information required to be attached.
9
Is this application for a withholding certificate made under section 1445(e)? . . . . . . . . . . .
Yes
If “Yes,” check the applicable box in a and the applicable box in b below.
1445(e)(1)
1445(e)(2)
1445(e)(3)
1445(e)(5)
1445(e)(6)
a Type of transaction:
b Applicant is:
Taxpayer
Other person required to withhold. Specify your title (for example, trustee)

No
No

Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this application and accompanying attachments, and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, they are true,
correct, and complete.

Signature

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see the instructions.

Title (if applicable)
Cat. No. 10128Z

Date
Form 8288-B (Rev. 12-2025) Created 9/3/25

Page 2

Form 8288-B (Rev. 12-2025)

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to Form
8288-B and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they
were published, go to www.irs.gov/Form8288B.

General Instructions
Purpose of form. Form 8288-B is used to apply for a withholding
certificate to reduce or eliminate withholding on dispositions of
U.S. real property interests by foreign persons, but only if the
application is based on:
1. A claim that the transferor is entitled to nonrecognition
treatment or is exempt from tax,
2. A claim solely on a calculation that shows the transferor’s
maximum tax liability is less than the tax otherwise required to be
withheld, or
3. A claim that the special installment sales rules described in
section 7 of Rev. Proc. 2000-35 allowed reduced withholding.
Do not use this form for applications:
• Based on an agreement for the payment of tax with conforming
security,
• For blanket withholding certificates under Rev. Proc. 2000-35, or
• Other than the three types described above.
Who can apply for a withholding certificate. Either the transferee
or the transferor (or other authorized person) can file this
application.
See Regulations sections 1.1445-3 and 1.1445-6 and Rev. Proc.
2000-35 for information and procedures for applying for a
withholding certificate.
Withholding certificate. The IRS can issue a withholding certificate
to reduce or eliminate withholding under section 1445. A certificate
issued before the transfer notifies the transferee that reduced
withholding is required or no withholding is required. A certificate
issued after the transfer may authorize an early or a normal refund.
If, on the date of transfer, an application for a withholding certificate
is or has been submitted to the IRS, the applicable withholding is
not required to be paid over to the IRS until the 20th day after the
day that the IRS mails the withholding certificate or notice of denial.
A transferor that applies for a withholding certificate must notify the
transferee in writing that the certificate has been applied for on the
day of or prior to the transfer.
The IRS will normally act on an application within 90 days of
receipt of all information necessary to make a proper determination.
The IRS will determine whether withholding should be reduced or
eliminated or whether a withholding certificate should not be issued.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN). The U.S. TIN of all parties
to the transaction must be on the application for a withholding
certificate. For U.S. individuals, the TIN is a social security number
(SSN). For all other entities, it is an employer identification number
(EIN). For information regarding EINs and how to apply, go to
www.irs.gov/EIN.
If you are a nonresident alien individual who is required to have a
TIN, but is not eligible to obtain an SSN, you must apply for an IRS
individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN). If you do not have a
TIN and are eligible for an ITIN, you can apply for an ITIN by
attaching the completed Form 8288-B to a completed Form W-7,
Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, and
forwarding the package to the IRS at the address given in the Form
W-7 instructions. For more information, go to www.irs.gov/FormW7.

Any withholding certificate issued by the IRS applies only for the
limited purpose of determining the withholding obligation under
section 1445 and does not apply to any substantive issue that may
arise in connection with the transfer. The acceptance by the IRS of
any evidence submitted in connection with this application is not
binding on the IRS for any purpose other than issuing the
withholding certificate. The information submitted in support of the
application may be subject to verification by the IRS prior to
issuance of a withholding certificate.
If you receive a withholding certificate from the IRS and
withholding is still required, a copy of the withholding certificate
must be attached to Form 8288, U.S. Withholding Tax Return for
Certain Dispositions by Foreign Persons.
Installment sales. A transferee is required to withhold on the full
sales price regardless of the amount of the payment. However, if
the transferor is not a dealer and will report gain using the
installment method under section 453, a withholding certificate
allowing reduced withholding may be obtained. Any withholding
certificate based on the installment sale method will provide for
payment of interest on the deferred tax liability under section
453A(c) when applicable.
For installment sales subject to withholding under section 1445(a)
or (e), the IRS will consider applications for a withholding certificate
based on the transferee’s (or entity’s or fiduciary’s) agreement to all
of the following.
1. Withhold and pay over 15% or a lower amount determined by
the IRS (or the amount the IRS determines to be appropriate under
section 1445(e)) of the down payment. The amount of the down
payment includes any liabilities of the transferor (entity in the case
of section 1445(e)) assumed by the transferee, or liabilities to which
the U.S. real property interest was subject immediately before and
after the transfer.
2. Withhold 15% or a lower amount determined by the IRS (or the
amount the IRS determines to be appropriate under section 1445(e))
of each subsequent payment and the interest on the deferred tax
liability.
3. Use Forms 8288 and 8288-A (relating to withholding on
dispositions by foreign persons of U.S. real property interests) to
pay over all amounts withheld. The identification number of the
transferor (or interest holder subject to withholding under section
1445(e)) must be included on Forms 8288 and 8288-A.
4. Notify the IRS before the disposition or encumbrance of the
U.S. real property interest (of the installment obligation under
section 1445(e)), and when it occurs, pay over the remaining
amount to be withheld.
5. Continue to withhold under a reduced withholding certificate
until an amended certificate is issued, even if the transferor pledges
the installment obligation in exchange for all or part of the proceeds
due on the obligation and includes in gross income under section
453A(d) the net proceeds of the secured indebtedness.
Where to send applications for a withholding certificate. Form
8288-B and other applications for a withholding certificate must be
sent to the Internal Revenue Service, P.O. Box 409101, Ogden, UT
84409.

Specific Instructions
Complete all information for each line. An application that is not
substantially complete when submitted will be rejected. For
example, an application without a specific or estimated date of
transfer will not be considered to be substantially complete.
Line 1. Enter the name, street address, and TIN of the transferor. If
there are multiple transferors, attach additional sheets giving the
required information about each one. For a transaction under
section 1445(e), enter the required information for each foreign
person for whom you are requesting reduced withholding.

Form 8288-B (Rev. 12-2025)

Line 2. Enter the name, street address, and TIN of the transferee. If
there are multiple transferees, attach additional sheets giving the
required information about each one.
Line 4a. The withholding agent will normally be the buyer or other
transferee as described in section 1445(d)(4). For distributions under
section 1445(e), the withholding agent also includes a trustee,
executor, or other authorized person.
Line 4b. If you are not applying for this withholding certificate in
your personal capacity, enter your SSN or ITIN. See Taxpayer
identification number (TIN), earlier.
Line 4c. If you are acting on behalf of an estate or trust, or are
signing as an authorized person for an entity other than an
individual (for example, a corporation, qualified investment entity, or
partnership), enter the name of the estate, trust, or entity.
Line 4d. Enter the EIN of the estate, trust, or entity.
Line 5. Enter the address you want the IRS to use for purposes of
returning the withholding certificate.
Line 6a. Enter the year as a four-digit number (for example, “2025”).
Line 6c. “Associated personal property” means property (for
example, furniture) sold with a building. See Regulations section
1.897-1.
Line 6d. Check “Other” if the property was used for both personal
and rental use and attach an explanation.
Line 6f. Enter the address and description of the property (for
example, “10-story, 100-unit luxury apartment building”). For a real
estate holding corporation interest transferred, enter the class or
type and amount of the interest (for example, “10,000 shares Class
A Preferred Stock XYZ Corporation”). You may attach additional
sheets. Be sure to include your name and TIN on each sheet you
attach.
Line 6g. A U.S. income tax return includes Forms 1040-NR and
1120-F.
Line 7a. If you checked the box on line 7a, attach:
1. A brief description of the transfer,
2. A summary of the law,
3. Facts supporting the claim of exemption or nonrecognition,
4. Evidence that the transferor has no unsatisfied withholding
liability, and
5. The most recent assessed value for state or local property tax
purposes of the interest to be transferred, or other estimate of its
fair market value. You need not submit supporting evidence of the
value of the property.
A nonresident alien or foreign corporation must also attach a
statement of the adjusted basis of the property immediately before
the distribution or transfer.
Line 7b. If you checked the box on line 7b, attach a calculation of
the maximum tax that can be imposed on the disposition. You must
also include a statement signed by the transferor under penalties of
perjury that the calculation and all supporting evidence is true and
correct to the best knowledge of the transferor.
The calculation of the maximum tax that can be imposed must
include:
1. Evidence of the amount to be realized by the transferor, such
as a copy of the signed contract of transfer;
2. Evidence of the adjusted basis of the property, such as closing
statements, invoices for improvements, and depreciation schedules,
or if no depreciation schedules are submitted, a statement of the
nature of the use of the property and why depreciation was not
allowed;
3. Amounts to be recaptured for depreciation, investment credit,
or other items subject to recapture;

Page 3

4. The maximum capital gain and/or ordinary income tax rates
applicable to the transfer;
5. The tentative tax owed; and
6. Evidence showing the amount of any increase or reduction of
tax to which the transferor is subject, including any reduction to
which the transferor is entitled under a U.S. income tax treaty.
If you have a net operating loss, see Rev. Proc. 2000-35, section
4.06, for special rules about the maximum tax calculation.
If the purchase price includes personal property not subject to tax
under section 897, for the calculation of maximum tax, the
transferor must also include a statement listing each such item of
personal property transferred and the fair market value attributable
to each item. The fair market value claimed should be supported by
an independent appraisal or other similar documentation.
Line 7c. If you checked the box on line 7c, see Installment sales,
earlier.
Line 8. You must provide a calculation of the transferor’s
unsatisfied withholding liability or evidence that it does not exist.
This liability is the amount of any tax the transferor was required to,
but did not, withhold and pay over under section 1445 when the
U.S. real property interest now being transferred was acquired, or
upon a prior acquisition. The transferor’s unsatisfied withholding
liability is included in the calculation of maximum tax liability so that
it can be satisfied by the withholding on the current transfer.
Evidence that there is no unsatisfied withholding liability includes
any of the following.
1. Evidence that the transferor acquired the subject or prior real
property interest before 1985.
2. A copy of Form 8288 filed and proof of payment.
3. A copy of a withholding certificate issued by the IRS plus a
copy of Form 8288 and proof of payment of any amount required by
that certificate.
4. A copy of the nonforeign certificate furnished by the person
from whom the U.S. real property interest was acquired (the
certificate must be executed at the time of acquisition).
5. Evidence that the transferor purchased the subject or prior real
property interest for $300,000 or less and a statement, signed by
the transferor under penalties of perjury, that the transferor
purchased the property for use as a residence within the meaning of
Regulations section 1.1445-2(d)(1).
6. Evidence that the person from whom the transferor acquired
the subject or prior U.S. real property interest fully paid any tax
imposed on that transaction under section 897.
7. A copy of a notice of nonrecognition treatment provided to the
transferor under Regulations section 1.1445-2(d)(2) by the person
from whom the transferor acquired the subject or prior U.S. real
property interest.
8. A statement, signed by the transferor under penalties of
perjury, explaining why the transferor was not required to withhold
under section 1445(a) with regard to the transferor’s acquisition of
the subject or prior real property interest.
Line 9a. If the transaction is subject to withholding under section
1445(e), check the box to indicate which provision of section
1445(e) applies.
Line 9b. Indicate whether the applicant is the taxpayer or the
person required to withhold, and in what capacity that person is
required to withhold.
Signature. The application must be signed by an individual, a
responsible corporate officer, a general partner of a partnership, or
a trustee, executor, or other fiduciary of a trust or estate. The
application may also be signed by an authorized agent with a power
of attorney. Form 2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration of
Representative, can be used for this purpose.

Form 8288-B (Rev. 12-2025)

Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the
information on this form to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of
the United States. Section 1445 generally imposes a withholding
obligation on the buyer or other transferee (withholding agent) when
a U.S. real property interest is acquired from a foreign person.
Section 1445 also imposes a withholding obligation on certain
foreign and domestic corporations, qualified investment entities,
and the fiduciary of certain trusts and estates. This form is used to
apply for a withholding certificate to reduce or eliminate withholding
on dispositions of U.S. real property interests by foreign persons if
certain conditions apply.
You are required to provide this information. Section 6109
requires you to provide your TIN. We need this information to
ensure that you are complying with the Internal Revenue laws and
to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax. Failure to
provide this information in a timely manner, or providing false
information, may subject you to penalties. Routine uses of this
information include giving it to the Department of Justice for civil
and criminal litigation, and to cities, states, the District of Columbia,
and to U.S. commonwealths and territories for use in the
administration of their tax laws. We may also disclose this
information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and
state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal
law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a
form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form
displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a
form or its instructions must be retained as long as their contents
may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue
law. Generally, tax returns and return information are confidential,
as required by section 6103.

Page 4

The time needed to complete and file this form will vary
depending on individual circumstances. The estimated average time
is:
Recordkeeping . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 hr., 4 min.
Learning about the
law or the form . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 hr., 7 min.
Preparing the form . . . . . . . . . . .
1 hr., 7 min.
Copying, assembling,
and sending the form
to the IRS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 min.
If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time
estimates or suggestions for making this form simpler, we would be
happy to hear from you. You can send us comments through
www.irs.gov/FormComments. Or, you can send your comments to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111
Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Do not
send this form to this office. Instead, see Where to send
applications for a withholding certificate, earlier.

