Future Developments
Publication 515

Withholding of
Tax on
Nonresident
Aliens and
Foreign
Entities
For use in

2026

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 515, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub515.

What’s New
Information Returns Intake System (IRIS). The IRS
has developed IRIS, an online portal e-filing information
returns that will replace the Filing Information Returns
Electronically (FIRE) system once it is retired. FIRE is set
to retire for tax year 2026 and will not be available for submissions for filing season 2027 (forms due in 2027). IRIS
will be available beginning January 1, 2026, and must be
used to e-file 2026 Forms 1042-S (due March 15, 2027).
Either IRIS or FIRE may be used to e-file 2025 Forms
1042-S (due March 15, 2026). For more information about
IRIS, see Pub. 5717, IRIS Taxpayer Portal User Guide, or
go to IRS.gov/IRIS.
Forms 1042-S for prior tax years, as well as submissions by foreign filers, must continue to be electronically
filed using the FIRE system until it is retired.
IRIS will be the only intake system for information returns currently received through FIRE. For more information on e-filing with IRIS, go to IRS.gov/InfoReturns.
Direct deposit and electronic payments. If you have
access to U.S. banking services or electronic payment
systems, you are now able to request your tax refund electronically deposited for free into your financial account.
Also, the IRS added another option for withholding agents
to make federal tax deposits and make balance due payments using IRS Direct Pay. Go to IRS.gov/Payments to
see all your payment options.

Reminders

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:

• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Mar 10, 2026

Partial suspension of income tax convention with
USSR as it relates to Belarus. On December 17, 2024,
the United States provided formal notice to the Republic of
Belarus of the partial suspension of its tax treaty with the
USSR as it relates to Belarus. The United States has suspended the operation of paragraph 1, subparagraph (g),
of Article 3 of the Convention. The rest of the treaty articles will remain in place. The suspension went into effect
December 17, 2024, and will continue until December 31,
2026, or earlier if mutually determined by the two governments.
Withholding agents may not accept treaty claims for tax
withholding on interest payments on credits, loans, and
other forms of indebtedness connected with the financing
of trade made to residents of Belarus on or after December 17, 2024.
Partial suspension of income tax convention with
Russia. On June 17, 2024, the United States provided
formal notice to the Russian Federation of the partial
suspension of its treaty with Russia. The United States

Publication 515 (2026) Catalog Number 15019L
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

has suspended the operation of paragraph 4 of Article 1,
Articles 5 through 21, and Article 23 of the Convention, as
well as the Protocol. The suspension went into effect both
for taxes withheld at source and in respect of other taxes
on August 16, 2024, and will continue until otherwise decided by the two governments.
Beginning on or after August 16, 2024, withholding
agents are required to withhold at the statutory 30% withholding tax rate on payments of U.S. source income made
to recipients who may have previously qualified for treaty
benefits under the U.S.–Russia income tax treaty.
Termination of 1979 tax convention with Hungary. On
July 15, 2022, the U.S. Treasury Department announced
that Hungary was notified on July 8, 2022, that the United
States would terminate its tax treaty with Hungary. In accordance with the treaty’s provisions on termination, termination of the treaty is effective on January 8, 2023. With
respect to taxes withheld at source, the treaty ceases to
have effect on January 1, 2024. Therefore, as of January
1, 2024, withholding agents are required to withhold at the
statutory 30% withholding rate on payments of U.S.
source income made to recipients who may have previously qualified for treaty benefits under the U.S.–Hungary
income tax treaty. In respect of other taxes, the treaty
ceases to have effect with respect to tax periods beginning on or after January 1, 2024.
E-filing returns. The Taxpayer First Act of 2019 authorized the Department of the Treasury and the IRS to issue
regulations that reduce the 250-return e-file threshold. T.D.
9972, published February 23, 2023, lowered the e-file
threshold to 10 (calculated by aggregating all information
returns), effective for information returns required to be
filed on or after January 1, 2024. Go to IRS.gov/InfoReturn
for e-file options.
These final regulations also include requirements for
withholding agents to e-file Form 1042, Annual Withholding Tax Returns for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons, effective for Form 1042 returns required to be filed
on or after January 1, 2024. For more information, see the
Instructions for Form 1042.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

discussing the rules that apply generally to payments of
U.S. source income to foreign persons, it also contains
sections on the withholding that applies to the disposition
of U.S. real property interests (USRPIs) and the withholding by partnerships on income effectively connected with
the active conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
15

15

(Circular E), Employer’s Tax Guide

15-A Employer’s Supplemental Tax Guide
15-A

15-B Employer’s Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits
15-B

15-T Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods
15-T

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

Introduction

519 U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens

This publication is for withholding agents who pay income
to foreign persons, including nonresident aliens, foreign
corporations, foreign partnerships, foreign trusts, foreign
estates, foreign governments, and international organizations. Specifically, it describes the persons responsible for
withholding (withholding agents), the types of income subject to withholding, and the information return and tax return filing obligations of withholding agents. In addition to

1179 General Rules and Specifications For
Substitute Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and
Certain Other Information Returns

2

519

901 U.S. Tax Treaties
901

1179

5124 FATCA XML User Guide
5124

Form (and Instructions)
SS-4 Application for Employer Identification Number
SS-4

Publication 515 (2026)

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

W-4 Employee’s Withholding Certificate
W-4

W-4P Withholding Certificate for Periodic Pension or
Annuity Payments

8966 FATCA Report
8966

See How To Get Tax Help later in this publication for information about getting publications and forms.

W-4P

W-7 Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number

Withholding of Tax

W-8BEN Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial
Owner for United States Tax Withholding and
Reporting (Individuals)

In most cases, a foreign person is subject to U.S. tax on its
U.S. source income. Most types of U.S. source income received by a foreign person are subject to U.S. tax of 30%.
A reduced rate, including exemption, may apply if there is
a tax treaty between the foreign person’s country of residence and the United States. The tax is generally withheld
(chapter 3 withholding) from the payment made to the foreign person.

W-7

W-8BEN

W-8BEN-E Certificate of Status of Beneficial Owner
for United States Tax Withholding and
Reporting (Entities)
W-8BEN-E

W-8ECI Certificate of Foreign Person’s Claim That
Income Is Effectively Connected With the
Conduct of a Trade or Business in the United
States
W-8ECI

W-8EXP Certificate of Foreign Government or Other
Foreign Organization for United States Tax
Withholding and Reporting
W-8EXP

W-8IMY Certificate of Foreign Intermediary, Foreign
Flow-Through Entity, or Certain U.S. Branches
for United States Tax Withholding and
Reporting
W-8IMY

W-8 Inst. Instructions for the Requester of Forms
W-8BEN, W-8BEN-E, W-8ECI, W-8EXP, and
W-8IMY
W-8 Inst.

W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and
Certification
W-9

W-9 Inst. Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9
W-9 Inst.

941 Employer’s QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return
941

945 Annual Return of Withheld Federal Income Tax
945

1042 Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source
Income of Foreign Persons
1042

1042-S Foreign Person’s U.S. Source Income
Subject to Withholding
1042-S

1042-T Annual Summary and Transmittal of Forms
1042-S
1042-T

13930 Central Withholding Agreement Application
13930

8233 Exemption From Withholding on
Compensation for Independent (and Certain
Dependent) Personal Services of a Nonresident
Alien Individual

The term “chapter 3 withholding” is used in this publication descriptively to refer to withholding required under
sections 1441, 1442, and 1443. In most cases, chapter 3
withholding describes the withholding regime that requires
withholding on a payment of U.S. source income. Payments to foreign persons, including nonresident alien individuals, foreign entities, and governments, may be subject
to chapter 3 withholding.
Withholding may also be required on a payment to the
extent required under chapter 4. “Chapter 4” refers to
chapter 4 of Subtitle A (sections 1471 through 1474). See
Chapter 4 Withholding Requirements, later.
Caution: Chapter 3 withholding, when referenced in (and
not provided otherwise) in this publication, does not include withholding under section 1445 (see U.S. Real
Property Interest, later) or under section 1446 (see Partnership Withholding on Effectively Connected Taxable Income (ECTI) and Section 1446(f) Withholding, later).
A withholding agent (defined next) is the person responsible for withholding on payments made to a foreign
person. However, a withholding agent that can reliably associate the payment with valid documentation (discussed
later) from a U.S. person is not required to withhold. In addition, a withholding agent may apply a reduced rate of
withholding (including an exemption from withholding) if it
can reliably associate the payment with documentation
from a beneficial owner that is a foreign person entitled to
a reduced rate of withholding.

8233

8288 U.S. Withholding Tax Return for Certain
Dispositions by Foreign Persons

If an amount subject to chapter 3 withholding is also a
withholdable payment and chapter 4 withholding is applied to the payment, no withholding is required under
chapter 3. See Chapter 4 Withholding Requirements,
later.

8288-A Statement of Withholding on Certain
Dispositions by Foreign Persons

Withholding Agent

8288-B Application for Withholding Certificate for
Dispositions by Foreign Persons of U.S. Real
Property Interests

Chapter 3 Withholding Requirements

8288

8288-A

8288-B

8288-C Statement of Withholding Under Section
1446(f)(4) on Disposition by Foreign Persons of
Partnership Interests
8288-C

Publication 515 (2026)

You are a withholding agent if you are a U.S. or foreign
person, in whatever capacity acting, that has control, receipt, custody, disposal, or payment of an amount subject
to chapter 3 withholding. A withholding agent may be an
3

individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association,
nominee (under section 1446), or any other entity, including any foreign intermediary, foreign partnership, or U.S.
branch of certain foreign banks and insurance companies.
You may be a withholding agent even if there is no requirement to withhold from a payment or even if another person
has withheld the required amount from the payment.
Although several persons may be withholding agents
for a single payment, the full tax is required to be withheld
only once. In most cases, the U.S. person who pays an
amount subject to chapter 3 withholding is the person responsible for withholding. However, other persons may be
required to withhold. For example, a payment made by a
flow-through entity or nonqualified intermediary (NQI) that
knows, or has reason to know, that the full amount of
chapter 3 withholding was not done by the person from
which it receives a payment is required to do the appropriate withholding since it also falls within the definition of a
withholding agent. In addition, withholding must be done
by any qualified intermediary (QI), withholding foreign
partnership (WP), or withholding foreign trust (WT) in accordance with the terms of its withholding agreement, discussed later.

person’s debt to the creditor is considered made to the
person. A payment is also considered made to a person if
it is made to that person’s agent.
A U.S. partnership should withhold when any distributions that include amounts subject to withholding are
made. However, if a foreign partner’s distributive share of
income subject to withholding is not actually distributed,
the U.S. partnership must withhold on the foreign partner’s
distributive share of the income on the earlier of the date
that a Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) is furnished or mailed to
the partner or the due date for furnishing that schedule.
Note: If the foreign distributive share of income includes effectively connected income (ECI), see Partnership Withholding on ECTI, later.
A U.S. trust is required to withhold on the amount includible in the gross income of a foreign beneficiary to the
extent the trust’s distributable net income consists of an
amount subject to withholding. To the extent a U.S. trust is
required to distribute an amount subject to withholding but
does not actually distribute the amount, it must withhold
on the foreign beneficiary’s allocable share at the time the
income is required to be reported on Form 1042-S.

Liability for tax. As a withholding agent, you are personally liable for any tax required to be withheld. This liability
is independent of the tax liability of the foreign person to
whom the payment is made. If you fail to withhold and the
foreign payee fails to satisfy its U.S. tax liability, then both
you and the foreign person are liable for tax, as well as interest and any applicable penalties.
The applicable tax will be collected only once. If the foreign person satisfies its U.S. tax liability, you are not liable
for the tax but remain liable for any interest and penalties
for failure to withhold.

Note: Proposed regulations issued on December 18,
2018 (83 FR 64757) would allow partnerships or trusts
that are permitted to withhold in a subsequent year, with
respect to a foreign partner’s or beneficiary’s share of income for the prior year, to designate the deposit of the
withholding as attributable to the preceding year. In such a
case, the partnership or trust will be required to report the
associated amount and tax withheld on Forms 1042 and
1042-S for the preceding year. See the Instructions for
Form 1042 and the Instructions for Form 1042-S for additional information.

Determination of amount to withhold. You must withhold on the gross amount subject to chapter 3 withholding. You cannot reduce the gross amount by any deductions.
If the determination of the source of the income or the
amount subject to tax depends on facts that are not known
at the time of payment, you must withhold an amount sufficient to ensure that at least 30% of the amount subsequently determined to be subject to withholding is withheld. In no case, however, should you withhold more than
30% of the total amount paid. You may elect to hold 30%
of the payment in escrow until the earlier of the date that
the amount of income from U.S. sources or the taxable
amount can be determined or 1 year from the date the
amount is placed in escrow, at which time the withholding
becomes due, or, to the extent that withholding is not required, the escrowed amount must be paid to the payee.

Chapter 4 Withholding Requirements

When to withhold. Withholding is required at the time
you make a payment of an amount subject to withholding.
A payment is made to a person if that person realizes income, whether or not there is an actual transfer of cash or
other property. A payment is considered made to a person
if it is paid for that person’s benefit. For example, a payment made to a creditor of a person in satisfaction of that
4

You are a withholding agent for purposes of chapter 4 if
you are a U.S. or foreign person, in whatever capacity you
are acting, that has control, receipt, custody, disposal, or
payment of a withholdable payment. Similar rules for determining who is a withholding agent as those described
in Chapter 3 Withholding Requirements, earlier, also apply
for chapter 4. For purposes of chapter 4, a withholding
agent includes a participating foreign financial institution
(FFI) (including a reporting Model 2 FFI) or registered
deemed-compliant FFI to the extent such FFI makes a
withholdable payment.
Under chapter 4, a withholding agent that makes a
withholdable payment to a payee that is an FFI must withhold 30% on the payment unless the withholding agent is
able to treat the FFI as a participating FFI, deemed-compliant FFI, or exempt beneficial owner. A withholding
agent must also withhold 30% on a withholdable payment
made to a payee that is a foreign entity other than an FFI
(that is, a nonfinancial foreign entity, or NFFE) that fails to
identify its substantial U.S. owners (or certify that it does
not have any substantial U.S. owners) unless the payment
is excepted from withholding under the regulations to
Publication 515 (2026)

section 1472. A participating FFI is a withholding agent
under chapter 4 and is required to withhold on a withholdable payment to the extent required under the FFI agreement, including on a payment made to an account holder
that the FFI is required to treat as a recalcitrant account
holder. A reporting Model 1 FFI is required to withhold under chapter 4 to the extent required in the applicable intergovernmental
agreement
(IGA).
A
registered
deemed-compliant FFI (other than a reporting Model 1
FFI) is required to withhold under chapter 4 to the extent
required under the conditions applicable to its registered
deemed-compliant FFI status. See Regulations section
1.1471-5(f)(1) for a description of the types of registered
deemed-compliant FFIs that may have withholding requirements.
Generally, a withholdable payment is a payment of U.S.
source fixed or determinable annual or periodical (FDAP)
income. Specific exceptions to withholdable payments apply instead of the exemptions from withholding or taxation
provided under chapter 3. See Income Subject to Withholding, later, for more information on payments of U.S.
source FDAP income that are excepted from the definition
of withholdable payment.
If a withholding agent makes a payment subject to both
chapter 4 withholding and chapter 3 withholding, the withholding agent must apply the withholding provisions of
chapter 4, and need not withhold on the payment under
chapter 3 to the extent that it has withheld under chapter 4.
Similar rules for withholding agent liability for tax, determination of amount to withhold, and when to withhold as
those described in chapter 3 withholding requirements,
earlier, also apply for chapter 4.

Forms 1042 and 1042-S Reporting
Obligations
You are required to report payments subject to chapter 3
withholding on Form 1042-S and to file a tax return on
Form 1042. (See Returns Required, later.) You are also required to report withholdable payments to which chapter 4
withholding was (or should have been) applied on Form
1042-S and to file a tax return on Form 1042 to report the
payments. An exception from reporting may apply for
chapter 3 purposes to individuals who are not required to
withhold from a payment and who do not make the payment in the course of their trade or business. A similar exception from reporting for chapter 4 purposes may apply
to an individual making a withholdable payment outside
the course of the individual’s trade or business (including
as an agent with respect to making or receiving such payment).

Withholding and Reporting
Obligations (Other Than Forms 1042
and 1042-S Reporting for Chapter 3 or
4 Purposes)
Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding. You
may also be responsible as a payer for reporting payments to a U.S. person, generally on Form 1099. You must
withhold 24% (backup withholding rate) from certain reportable payments made to a U.S. person that is subject
to Form 1099 reporting if any of the following apply.

• The U.S. person has not provided its taxpayer identification number (TIN) in the manner required.

• The IRS notifies you that the TIN furnished by the
payee is incorrect.

• There has been a notified payee underreporting.
• There has been a payee certification failure.
In most cases, a TIN must be provided by a U.S. nonexempt recipient (a U.S. person subject to Form 1099 reporting) on Form W-9.
A payer files a tax return on Form 945 to report backup
withholding.
You may be required to file Form 1099 and, if appropriate, backup withhold, even if you do not make the payments directly to that U.S. person. For example, you are
required to report income paid to a foreign intermediary or
flow-through entity that collects for a U.S. person subject
to Form 1099 reporting. However, you may not be required
to report on Form 1099 if you make a payment to a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that provides a withholding statement allocating the payment to a
chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees. See Identifying the Payee, later, for more information. Also, see Section S. Special Rules for Reporting Payments Made
Through
Foreign
Intermediaries
and
Foreign
Flow-Through Entities on Form 1099 in Pub. 1099,
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Tip: Foreign persons who provide a valid Form W-8 (or
applicable documentary evidence when permitted in lieu
of a Form W-8) are exempt from backup withholding and
Form 1099 reporting.
Form 8966 reporting. For chapter 4 purposes, you may
be required to report on Form 8966 if you make a withholdable payment to an entity you agree to treat as an
owner-documented FFI or to a passive NFFE. See Returns Required, later.
Wages paid to employees. If you are the employer of a
nonresident alien, you must generally withhold taxes at
graduated rates. See Pay for Personal Services Performed, later.
Effectively connected income by partnerships. A
withholding agent that is a partnership (whether U.S. or
foreign) is also responsible for withholding on its income
effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business that is
allocable to foreign partners. In the case of a publicly

Publication 515 (2026)

5

traded partnership (PTP), however, either the partnership
or a nominee may be responsible for this withholding, as
applied to distributions by the partnership (PTP distributions). See Partnership Withholding on ECTI, later, for
more information.
Transfers of interests in partnerships engaged in the
conduct of a U.S. trade or business. A withholding
agent is also responsible for withholding on the amount
realized on the transfer by a foreign partner of an interest
in a partnership (domestic or foreign) engaged in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. See Section 1446(f)
Withholding, later, for more information, including withholding requirements applicable to brokers effecting transfers of PTP interests.
USRPI. A withholding agent may also be responsible for
withholding if a foreign person transfers a USRPI to the
agent, or if it is a corporation, partnership, trust, or estate
that distributes a USRPI to a shareholder, partner, or beneficiary that is a foreign person. See U.S. Real Property Interest, later.

Persons Subject to Chapter 3
or Chapter 4 Withholding
Chapter 3 withholding applies only to payments made to a
payee that is a foreign person. It does not apply to payments made to U.S. persons.
Usually, you determine the payee’s status as a U.S. or
foreign person or, if you are making a withholdable payment to an entity (or are an FFI making a payment to an
account holder), the payee’s chapter 4 status, based on
the documentation that person provides. See Documentation, discussed later. However, if you have received no
documentation or you cannot reliably associate all or a
part of a payment with documentation upon which you can
rely, then you must apply certain presumption rules, discussed later.
Chapter 4 withholding applies to withholdable payments made to an entity payee that is an FFI unless the
withholding agent is able to treat the FFI as a participating
FFI, deemed-compliant FFI, or exempt beneficial owner.
Chapter 4 withholding also applies to withholdable payments made to a passive NFFE that fails to identify its
substantial U.S. owners (or certify that it does not have
any substantial U.S. owners). You must establish the
payee’s chapter 4 status to determine if withholding applies by applying the documentation requirements of
chapter 4, generally by obtaining a Form W-8 (or, under an
applicable IGA, a similar agreed form) associated with the
payment, or other documentation for payments made outside of the United States on offshore obligations. See
Regulations section 1.1471-3(d) for details on these documentation requirements. Withholding under chapter 4 also
applies to account holders of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that the FFI is required to
treat as recalcitrant account holders.
6

This section applies to both chapters 3 and 4 except
where otherwise indicated and except where the text
clearly applies to one or the other (for example, reduced
rates and exemptions under income tax treaties).

Identifying the Payee
In most cases, the payee is the person to whom you make
the payment, regardless of whether that person is the beneficial owner of the income. However, there are situations
in which the payee is a person other than the one to whom
you actually make a payment.
U.S. agent of foreign person. For purposes of chapter 3, if you make a payment to a U.S. person and you
have actual knowledge that the U.S. person is receiving
the payment as an agent of a foreign person, you must
treat the payment as made to the foreign person. However, if the U.S. person is a financial institution (FI), defined later, you may treat the institution as the payee provided you have no reason to believe that the institution will
not comply with its own obligation to withhold under chapter 3.
For chapter 4 purposes, if you make a withholdable
payment to a U.S. person and you have actual knowledge
that the U.S. person is receiving the payment as an intermediary or agent of a foreign person, you must treat the
foreign person as the payee. However, if you make a withholdable payment to a U.S. FI or a U.S. insurance broker
(to the extent the withholdable payment is a payment of an
insurance premium) that is receiving the payment as an intermediary or agent, you may treat the FI or insurance
broker as the payee if you do not have reason to know that
the FI or insurance broker will not comply with its obligations to withhold under chapter 4.
If the payment is not subject to chapter 3 withholding
and is not a withholdable payment, you must treat the payment as made to a U.S. person and not as a payment to a
foreign person. You may be required to report the payment
on Form 1099 and, if applicable, backup withhold.
Disregarded entities. In general, a business entity that
is not a corporation and that has a single owner may be
disregarded as an entity separate from its owner (a disregarded entity) for federal tax purposes. The payee of a
payment made to a disregarded entity is the owner of the
entity.
If the owner of the entity is a foreign person, you must
apply chapter 3 withholding unless you can treat the foreign owner as a beneficial owner entitled to a reduced rate
of withholding.
If the owner is a U.S. person, you do not apply chapter 3 withholding. However, you may be required to report
the payment on Form 1099 and, if applicable, backup
withhold. You may assume that a foreign entity is not a disregarded entity unless you can reliably associate the payment with documentation provided by the owner or you
have actual knowledge or reason to know that the foreign
entity is a disregarded entity.
Special chapter 4 rules. If you make a withholdable
payment to a disregarded entity owned by an FFI, for
Publication 515 (2026)

chapter 4 purposes you must determine whether you must
treat the payment as made to a payee that is a nonparticipating FFI (to which chapter 4 withholding applies) or a
payee that is an FFI with another chapter 4 status (such as
a participating FFI). If you make a withholdable payment to
a disregarded entity that is treated as a disregarded entity
that is a branch of an FFI that cannot comply with the requirements of an applicable IGA or the regulations under
chapter 4, you must treat the payment as made to a nonparticipating FFI and withhold 30% of the payment. See
the Instructions for Form W-8BEN-E for more information
on payments to disregarded entities.

Flow-Through Entities
Chapter 3 payees. The payees of payments (other than
income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business
and dispositions of interests in partnerships engaged in a
trade or business within the United States) made to a foreign flow-through entity are the owners or beneficiaries of
the flow-through entity. This rule applies for purposes of
chapter 3 withholding and for Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding. Income that is, or is deemed to be, effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or
business of a flow-through entity is treated as paid to the
entity.
The following are flow-through entities.

• A foreign partnership (other than a WP).
• A foreign simple or foreign grantor trust (other than a
WT).

If the chapter 3 payee is a disregarded entity or
flow-through entity for U.S. tax purposes, but the payee is
claiming treaty benefits, see Fiscally transparent entities
claiming treaty benefits, later.
Chapter 4 payees. For purposes of chapter 4, however,
a foreign entity that is a flow-through entity is a payee with
respect to a payment (other than income effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business) if the
flow-through entity is:

• An FFI that is not a participating FFI or deemed-com-

pliant FFI, or restricted distributor (an entity that operates as a distributor that holds debt or equity interests
in a restricted fund as a nominee and meets the requirements described in Regulations section
1.1471-5(f)(4)) receiving the payment on behalf of its
owners (in such a case, the entity is a nonparticipating
FFI subject to withholding under chapter 4); or

• An excepted NFFE that is not acting as an agent or intermediary with respect to the payment.

If you make a withholdable payment to a flow-through
entity that is not one of the types described above, you
must treat the partner, beneficiary, or owner (as applicable) of the flow-through entity as the payee for chapter 4
purposes (similar to the determination of the payee for
chapter 3 purposes) (looking through partners, beneficiaries, and owners that are themselves flow-through entities
that are not one of the types described above).
Publication 515 (2026)

In most cases, you treat a payee as a flow-through entity if it provides you with a Form W-8IMY (see Documentation, later) on which it claims such status. You may also
be required to treat the entity as a flow-through entity under the presumption rules, discussed later.
For purposes of chapter 3, you must determine whether
the owners or beneficiaries of a flow-through entity are
U.S. or foreign persons, how much of the payment relates
to each owner or beneficiary, and, if the owner or beneficiary is foreign, whether a reduced rate of chapter 3 withholding applies. For purposes of chapter 4, you must determine the chapter 4 status of the owners or beneficiaries
of a flow-through entity (subject to the exceptions described above), how much of the payment relates to each
owner or beneficiary, and whether withholding under
chapter 4 applies. You make these determinations based
on the documentation and other information (contained in
a withholding statement) that is associated with the
flow-through entity’s Form W-8IMY. If you do not have all
of the information that is required to reliably associate a
payment with a specific payee, you must apply the presumption rules. See Documentation and Presumption
Rules, later.
WPs and WTs are not flow-through entities.
Foreign partnerships. A foreign partnership is any partnership (including an entity classified as a partnership)
that is not organized under the laws of any state of the
United States or the District of Columbia or any partnership that is treated as foreign under the income tax regulations. If a foreign partnership is not a WP, the payees of income are the partners of the partnership, provided the
partners are not themselves flow-through entities or foreign intermediaries. However, the payee is the partnership
itself if the partnership is claiming treaty benefits on the
basis that it is not treated as fiscally transparent in the
treaty jurisdiction and that it meets all the other requirements for claiming treaty benefits. If a partner is a foreign
flow-through entity or a foreign intermediary, you apply the
payee determination rules to that partner to determine the
payees.
For purposes of chapter 4, a foreign partnership is a
payee of a withholdable payment if the partnership is a
WP that is not acting as an agent or intermediary with respect to the payment. If the partnership is not a WP, the
payees are the partners (looking through any partners that
are flow-through entities that are not treated as payees under the chapter 4 regulations).
Example 1. A nonwithholding foreign partnership has
three partners: a nonresident alien individual, a foreign
corporation, and a U.S. citizen. You make a payment of
U.S. source interest to the partnership. Assume that the
payment is subject to chapter 3 withholding but is not a
withholdable payment. The partnership gives you a Form
W-8IMY with which it associates Form W-8BEN from the
nonresident alien, Form W-8BEN-E from the foreign corporation, and Form W-9 from the U.S. citizen. The partnership also gives you a complete withholding statement that
enables you to associate a part of the interest payment to
each partner.
7

You must treat all three partners as the payees of their
part of the interest payment as if the payment were made
directly to them. Report the payments to the nonresident
alien and the foreign corporation on Forms 1042-S. Report
the payment to the U.S. citizen on Form 1099-INT. You do
not need to determine the chapter 4 status of the partnership because the payment is not a withholdable payment.
Example 2. A nonwithholding foreign partnership has
two partners: a foreign corporation and a nonwithholding
foreign partnership. The second partnership has two partners, both nonresident alien individuals. You make a payment of U.S. source interest to the first partnership. Assume that the payment is subject to chapter 3 withholding
but is not a withholdable payment. The partnership gives
you a valid Form W-8IMY with which it associates a Form
W-8BEN-E from the foreign corporation and a Form
W-8IMY from the second partnership. In addition, Forms
W-8BEN from the partners are associated with the Form
W-8IMY from the second partnership. The Forms W-8IMY
from the partnerships have complete withholding statements associated with them. Because you can reliably associate a part of the interest payment with the Form
W-8BEN-E provided by the foreign corporation and the
Forms W-8BEN provided by the nonresident alien individual partners as a result of the withholding statements, you
must treat them as the payees of the interest. You do not
need to determine the chapter 4 status of the partnership
because the payment is not a withholdable payment.
Example 3. You make a payment of U.S. source dividends to a WP. Assume that the payment is subject to
chapter 3 withholding and is not a withholdable payment.
The partnership has two partners, both foreign corporations. You can reliably associate the payment with a valid
Form W-8IMY from the partnership on which it represents
that it is a WP. You must treat the partnership as the payee
of the dividends for purposes of both chapter 3 and chapter 4, and you must determine the chapter 4 status of the
partnership.
Foreign simple and grantor trust. A trust is foreign unless it meets both of the following tests.

• A court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust.

• One or more U.S. persons have the authority to control
all substantial decisions of the trust.

In most cases, a foreign simple trust is a foreign trust
that is required to distribute all of its income annually. A
foreign grantor trust is a foreign trust that is treated as a
grantor trust under sections 671 through 679.
The payees of a payment made to a foreign simple trust
are the beneficiaries of the trust. The payees of a payment
made to a foreign grantor trust are the owners of the trust.
However, the payee is the foreign simple or grantor trust itself if the trust is claiming treaty benefits on the basis that
it is not fiscally transparent and that it meets all the other
requirements for claiming treaty benefits. If the beneficiaries or owners are themselves flow-through entities or foreign intermediaries, you apply the payee determination
rules to that beneficiary or owner to determine the payees.
8

Example. A foreign simple trust has three beneficiaries: two nonresident alien individuals and a U.S. citizen.
You make a payment of U.S. source interest to the foreign
trust. Assume that the payment is subject to chapter 3
withholding but is not a withholdable payment. The foreign
trust gives you a Form W-8IMY with which it associates
Forms W-8BEN from the nonresident aliens and a Form
W-9 from the U.S. citizen. The trust also gives you a complete withholding statement that enables you to associate
the interest payment with the forms provided by each beneficiary. You must treat all three beneficiaries as the payees of their part of the interest payment as if the payment
were made directly to them. Report the payment to the
nonresident aliens on Forms 1042-S. Report the payment
to the U.S. citizen on Form 1099-INT. You do not need to
establish the chapter 4 status of the trust because the
payment is not a withholdable payment.
Fiscally transparent entities claiming treaty benefits.
For purposes of claiming treaty benefits, if an entity is fiscally transparent for U.S. tax purposes (for example, a disregarded entity or flow-through entity for U.S. tax purposes) and the entity is or is treated as a resident of a treaty
country, it will derive the item of income and may be eligible for treaty benefits. In such case, the entity is the payee
for chapter 3 purposes. It does not need to be taxed by the
treaty country on such item, but the item must be accounted for as the entity’s income, not the interest holders’ income, under the law of the treaty country whose treaty it is
invoking. It must also meet any other requirements for
claiming benefits, including the provisions of the limitation
on benefits (LOB) article, if any, in the treaty. The entity
should provide a Form W-8BEN-E to the U.S. withholding
agent in such circumstances. If, for chapter 3 purposes,
the payee is a foreign corporation or other
non-flow-through entity for U.S. tax purposes, it is nonetheless not entitled to claim treaty benefits if the entity is
fiscally transparent in its country of residence (that is, a
foreign reverse hybrid). Instead, any interest holder resident in that country will derive its allocable share of the
items of income paid to the foreign reverse hybrid and
may be eligible for benefits. If an interest holder is a resident of a third country, the interest holder may claim treaty
benefits under the third country’s treaty with the United
States, if any, only if the foreign reverse hybrid is fiscally
transparent under the laws of the third country. If an interest holder is entitled to treaty benefits under a treaty between the United States and its country of residence, the
payee may provide a Form W-8IMY and attach Form
W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E from any interest holder that
claims treaty benefits on such income.
The determination of whether an entity is fiscally transparent is made on an item of income basis (that is, the determination is made separately for interest, dividends, royalties, etc.). An interest holder in an entity makes the
determination by applying the laws of the jurisdiction
where the interest holder is organized, incorporated, or
otherwise considered a resident. An entity is considered
to be fiscally transparent with respect to the income generally to the extent the laws of that jurisdiction require the
interest holder to separately take into account on a current
Publication 515 (2026)

basis the interest holder’s share of the income, whether or
not distributed to the interest holder, and the character
and source of the income to the interest holder are determined as if the income was realized directly from the
source that paid it to the entity. Subject to the standards of
knowledge for purposes of chapter 3 and standards of
knowledge for purposes of chapter 4, discussed later, you
generally make the determination that an entity is fiscally
transparent based on a Form W-8IMY provided by the entity.
For chapter 3 purposes, the payees of a payment made
to a fiscally transparent entity are the interest holders of
the entity if the interest holders are claiming treaty benefits
with respect to the payment.
For chapter 4 purposes, if you are making a withholdable payment to a fiscally transparent entity, you must apply
the rules of chapter 4 to determine the payee (applying the
rules described earlier) and whether chapter 4 withholding
applies to the payment based on the payee’s chapter 4
status. Thus, chapter 4 withholding may apply to a withholdable payment made to a fiscally transparent entity
based on the chapter 4 status of the entity even when the
interest holders in the entity would be eligible for reduced
withholding under an income tax treaty with respect to the
payment. Treaty benefits may be granted to the interest
holder when the payment made is not subject to chapter 4
withholding based on the chapter 4 status of both the entity and the interest holder.
Example. Afloat Entity is a business organization organized under the laws of country X that has an income
tax treaty in force with the United States. Afloat has two interest holders, Benson and Carlson. Benson is a corporation organized under the laws of country Y. Carlson is a
corporation organized under the laws of country Z. Both
countries Y and Z have an income tax treaty in force with
the United States.
Afloat receives royalty income from U.S. sources that is
not effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or
business in the United States and that is not a withholdable payment. The chapter 4 status of Afloat does not need
to be determined because the payment is not a withholdable payment.
For U.S. income tax purposes, Afloat is treated as a
partnership. Country X treats Afloat as a partnership and
requires the interest holders in Afloat to separately take
into account on a current basis their respective shares of
the income paid to Afloat even if the income is not distributed. The laws of country X provide that the character and
source of the income to Afloat’s interest holders are determined as if the income were realized directly from the
source that paid it to Afloat. Accordingly, Afloat is fiscally
transparent in its jurisdiction, country X.
Benson and Carlson are not fiscally transparent under
the laws of their respective countries of incorporation.
Country Y requires Benson to separately take into account
on a current basis Benson’s share of the income paid to
Afloat, and the character and source of the income to
Benson is determined as if the income were realized directly from the source that paid it to Afloat. Accordingly,
Afloat is fiscally transparent for that income under the laws
Publication 515 (2026)

of country Y, and Benson is treated as deriving its share of
the U.S. source royalty income for purposes of the U.S.–Y
income tax treaty. Country Z, on the other hand, treats
Afloat as a corporation and does not require Carlson to
take into account its share of Afloat’s income on a current
basis whether or not distributed. Therefore, Afloat is not
treated as fiscally transparent under the laws of country Z.
Accordingly, Carlson is not treated as deriving its share of
the U.S. source royalty income for purposes of the U.S.–Z
income tax treaty.

Foreign Intermediaries
In most cases, if you make payments to a foreign intermediary, the payees are the persons for whom the foreign intermediary collects the payment, such as account holders
or customers, not the intermediary itself. This rule applies
for purposes of chapter 3 withholding and for Form 1099
reporting and backup withholding and chapter 4 withholding, provided the intermediary is not a nonparticipating FFI
to which you make a withholdable payment to which chapter 4 withholding applies. You may, however, treat a QI that
has assumed primary withholding responsibility for a payment as the payee, and you are not required to withhold.
An intermediary is a custodian, broker, nominee, or any
other person that acts as an agent for another person. A
foreign intermediary is either a QI or an NQI. In most cases, you determine whether an entity is a QI or an NQI
based on the representations the intermediary makes on
Form W-8IMY.
For purposes of chapter 3, you must determine whether
the customers or account holders of a foreign intermediary are U.S. or foreign persons and, if the account holder
or customer is foreign, whether a reduced rate of, or exemption from, chapter 3 withholding applies. For purposes
of chapter 4, you must generally determine the chapter 4
status of the account holders of a foreign intermediary if
the payment is a withholdable payment. The determination for chapter 3 purposes is not required when withholding applies under chapter 4 (that is, when the chapter 4
status of the foreign intermediary is a nonparticipating FFI
or an entity or branch treated as a nonparticipating FFI under an applicable IGA). You make these determinations
based on the foreign intermediary’s Form W-8IMY and associated information and documentation. If you do not
have all of the information or documentation that is required to reliably associate a payment with a payee, you
must apply the presumption rules of chapter 3, and you
must apply the presumption rules of chapter 4 to the foreign intermediary if the chapter 4 status of the entity
(when required) cannot be determined. See Documentation and Presumption Rules, later.
Special rule for chapter 4. For purposes of chapter 4, a
foreign person acting as an intermediary is generally not
the payee if the foreign person is:

• An NFFE, unless the NFFE is a QI that has assumed

primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility; or

9

• A participating FFI, deemed-compliant FFI, or restric-

ted distributor, unless such entity is a QI that has assumed primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility.

If you make a withholdable payment to one of the types
of entities described above, the payee is the person for
whom the agent or intermediary collects the payment.
Nonqualified intermediary (NQI). An NQI is any intermediary that is a foreign person and that is not a QI. The
payees of a payment made to an NQI for both chapter 3
and chapter 4 purposes are the customers or account
holders on whose behalf the NQI is acting.
Example. You make a payment of interest to a foreign
bank that is an NQI. Assume the payment is subject to
chapter 3 withholding but is not a withholdable payment.
The bank gives you a Form W-8IMY, the Forms W-8BEN
of two foreign persons, and a Form W-9 from a U.S. person for whom the bank is collecting the payments. The
bank also associates with its Form W-8IMY a withholding
statement on which it allocates the interest payment and
provides all other information required to be on the withholding statement. The account holders are the payees of
the interest payment. You should report the part of the interest paid to the two foreign persons on Forms 1042-S
and the part paid to the U.S. person on Form 1099-INT.
You do not need to establish the chapter 4 status of the
NQI because the payment is not a withholdable payment.
Qualified intermediary (QI). A QI is generally a foreign
intermediary (or foreign branch of a U.S. intermediary) that
has entered into a QI agreement (discussed later) with the
IRS. Certain entities may also act as QIs even when they
are not intermediaries. You may treat a QI as a payee to
the extent it assumes primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility or primary Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding responsibility for a payment. In this situation, the QI is required to withhold the tax. You can determine whether a QI has assumed responsibility from the
Form W-8IMY provided by the QI.
A payment to a QI to the extent it does not assume primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility is considered made to the person on whose behalf the QI acts.
If a QI does not assume Form 1099 reporting and backup
withholding responsibility, you must report on Form 1099
and, if applicable, backup withhold as if you were making
the payment directly to the U.S. person. See Qualified Intermediary (QI), later, for a discussion of withholding rate
pools and when a QI may include a U.S. nonexempt recipient in a U.S. payee pool.
Additionally, as of January 1, 2023, a QI may also assume primary withholding responsibilities with respect to
PTP distributions (including withholding under section
1446(a)) and transfers of PTP interests for section 1446(f)
purposes. For discussion of those provisions, see Publicly
Traded Partnership Distributions and Section 1446(f): PTP
Interests, later.
Qualified derivatives dealers (QDDs). For the definition of QDD, see Qualified derivatives dealer (QDD), later.
For QDD liability, see Amounts paid to QDDs, later.
10

Branches of FIs. Branches of FIs are not permitted to
operate as QIs if they are located outside of countries having approved “know-your-customer” (KYC) rules. The
countries with approved KYC rules are listed at IRS.gov/
KYCRules.
QI agreement. FFIs, foreign clearing organizations,
and foreign branches of U.S. FIs or clearing organizations
can enter into an agreement with the IRS to become a QI.
An eligible entity (as defined in Regulations section
1.1441-1(e)(6)(ii)) may also enter into a QI agreement for
purposes of becoming a QDD. To enter into a QI agreement, an FFI must have a chapter 4 status as:

• A participating FFI (including a reporting Model 2 FFI),
• A registered deemed-compliant FFI (including a reporting Model 1 FFI and a nonreporting Model 2 FFI
treated as registered deemed-compliant), or

• An FFI treated as a deemed-compliant FFI under an

applicable Model 1 IGA that is subject to similar due
diligence and reporting requirements with respect to
U.S. accounts as those applicable to a registered
deemed-compliant FFI (a “registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI”).

Certain foreign corporations that are NFFEs acting on
behalf of persons other than shareholders or foreign central banks of issue may also apply to the IRS to become
QIs.
See Revenue Procedure 2022-43, 2022-52 I.R.B. 570,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2022-43_IRB#RP-2022-52, for
more information on becoming a QI.
An entity may apply for QI status at IRS.gov/QISystem.
Note: A QI (other than an NFFE acting on behalf of
persons other than shareholders and certain central
banks) must also register at IRS.gov/FATCA to obtain its
applicable chapter 4 status and global intermediary identification number (GIIN).
Documentation requirements. For documentation
requirements applicable to payments made to QIs, for
chapters 3 and 4 purposes, see Responsibilities and Documentation, discussed later under Qualified Intermediary
(QI).
Reporting requirements. For the reporting requirements of QIs, see Form 1042-S reporting and Collective
refund procedures, discussed later under Qualified Intermediary (QI).
U.S. branches of foreign banks and foreign insurance
companies. Special rules apply to a U.S. branch of a foreign bank subject to regulatory supervision by the Federal
Reserve Board or a U.S. branch of a foreign insurance
company required to file an annual statement on a form
approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners with the Insurance Department of any U.S.
state, a U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia. If you
make a payment of an amount subject to chapter 3 withholding or a withholdable payment to a U.S. branch of either a foreign bank or foreign insurance company that
agrees to be treated as a U.S. person, you may treat the
Publication 515 (2026)

U.S. branch as a payee that is a U.S. person, provided you
receive a Form W-8IMY from the U.S. branch that you can
reliably associate with the payment. If you treat the branch
as a U.S. person, you are not required to withhold on an
amount subject to chapter 3 withholding or a withholdable
payment. Even though you agree to treat the branch as a
U.S. person, you must report the payments made to the
branch on Form 1042-S.
A territory financial institution is an FI as defined for
chapter 4 purposes (except when it is an investment entity
that is not also a depository institution, custodial institution, or specified insurance company (each as defined in
Regulations section 1.1471-5(e))), incorporated or organized under the laws of a territory of the United States. A
territory financial institution that is an intermediary or
flow-through entity is treated as a U.S. branch that agrees
to be treated as a U.S. person. The special rules described in this section apply to a territory financial institution.
If you are paying a U.S. branch an amount that is not
subject to chapter 3 withholding and is not a withholdable
payment, treat the payment as made to a foreign person,
irrespective of any agreement to treat the branch as a U.S.
person for such amounts. Consequently, amounts not
subject to chapter 3 withholding and that are not withholdable payments that are paid to a U.S. branch are not subject to Form 1099 reporting or backup withholding.
Alternatively, a U.S. branch may provide you with a
Form W-8IMY with which it associates the documentation
of the persons on whose behalf it acts. In this situation, the
U.S. branch is not treated as a U.S. person, and the payees are the persons on whose behalf the branch acts provided you can reliably associate the payment with valid
documentation from those persons. See Nonqualified Intermediary (NQI) under Documentation, later.
If you cannot reliably associate the payment with a
Form W-8IMY from the U.S. branch but you have obtained
an employer identification number (EIN) for the branch,
you should treat the payment as a payment to a foreign
person of income that is effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States. If you
cannot reliably associate the payment with a Form
W-8IMY from the U.S. branch and you have not obtained
an EIN for the branch, you should treat the payment as a
payment to a foreign person of income that is not effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in
the United States.
Withholding foreign partnership (WP) and withholding foreign trust (WT). A WP is any foreign partnership
that has entered into a WP agreement with the IRS and is
acting in that capacity with respect to its partners. A WT is
a foreign simple or grantor trust that has entered into a WT
agreement with the IRS and is acting in that capacity with
respect to its owners and beneficiaries. In order to enter
into a WP or WT agreement with the IRS, a WP or WT that
is an FFI must have chapter 4 status as a:

• Participating FFI (including a reporting Model 2 FFI),
• Registered-deemed compliant FFI (including a reporting Model 1 FFI and a nonreporting Model 2 FFI treated as registered deemed compliant),

Publication 515 (2026)

• Registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI, or
• Retirement fund.
A WP or WT that is an NFFE may also enter into a WP
or WT agreement with the IRS. An FFI that is a foreign reverse hybrid entity may apply to enter into a WP agreement, provided that the FFI is a participating FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, or a registered
deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI.
A WP or WT must act in that capacity for reportable
amounts that are distributed to, or included in the distributive share of, its direct partners, beneficiaries, or owners.
A WP or WT may act in that capacity for reportable
amounts that are distributed to, or included in the distributive share of, its indirect partners, beneficiaries, or owners
that are not U.S. nonexempt recipients (except for a U.S.
nonexempt recipient that is included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees). A WP or WT acting in
that capacity must assume primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility for payments subject to withholding
and must assume certain reporting requirements with respect to its U.S. partners, beneficiaries, and owners. You
may treat a WP or WT as a payee if it has provided you
with documentation (discussed later) that represents that
it is acting as a WP or WT for such amounts.
See Revenue Procedure 2017-21, 2017-6 I.R.B. 791,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2017-06_IRB#RP-2017-21, for
more information on becoming a WP or WT.
WP agreement and WT agreement. The WP agreement and WT agreement and the application procedures
for the agreements are in Revenue Procedure 2017-21,
earlier. An entity applies for WP or WT status at IRS.gov/
QISystem. The WP or WT will be assigned a WP-EIN or
WT-EIN to be used only when acting in that capacity.
A WP or WT that is an FFI (other than a retirement
fund) must also register with the IRS at IRS.gov/FATCARegistration to obtain its applicable chapter 4 status and
GIIN.
Documentation. A WP or WT must provide you with a
Form W-8IMY that certifies that the WP or WT is acting in
that capacity and provides all other information and certifications required by the form, including its WP-EIN or
WT-EIN. When you make a withholdable payment to a
WP or WT, the WP or WT may also generally provide a
certificate of a chapter 4 status permitted of a WP or WT
(and GIIN, if applicable). The WP or WT, when acting in
such capacity, is not required to provide a withholding
statement and is not required to disclose any information
regarding its direct partners, beneficiaries, or owners, or
any indirect partner, beneficiary, or owner for which it acts
as a WP or WT that is not a U.S. nonexempt recipient (except for a U.S. nonexempt recipient included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees). A chapter 4
withholding rate pool also means a payment of a single
type of income that is allocated to U.S. payees when the
WP provides the certification required on Form W-8IMY
for allocating payments to this pool. When a WP or WT is
not acting as a WP or WT with respect to an amount distributed to, or included in the distributive share of, an indirect partner, beneficiary, or owner, it must provide you with
11

a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding
foreign trust withholding certificate on a Form W-8IMY and
documentation for its indirect partners, beneficiaries, and
owners that are not included in a chapter 4 withholding
rate pool.

Foreign Persons
Rules relevant to chapters 3 and 4. A payee is subject
to withholding only if it is a foreign person. A foreign person includes a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign partnership, foreign trust, foreign estate,
and any other person that is not a U.S. person. It also includes a foreign branch of a U.S. FI if the foreign branch is
a QI. In most cases, the U.S. branch of a foreign corporation or partnership is treated as a foreign person. The determination of whether a foreign person is treated as an
entity (that is, as opposed to being disregarded as separate from its owner), or as a foreign corporation, foreign
partnership, or foreign trust, is made under U.S. tax rules.
If an amount is both a withholdable payment and an
amount subject to chapter 3 withholding and the withholding agent withholds under chapter 4, it may credit this
amount against any tax due under chapter 3.
Nonresident alien. A nonresident alien is an individual
who is not a U.S. citizen or a resident alien. A resident of a
foreign country under the residence article of an income
tax treaty is a nonresident alien individual for purposes of
withholding.
Married to U.S. citizen or resident alien. Nonresident alien individuals married to U.S. citizens or resident
aliens may choose to be treated as resident aliens for certain income tax purposes. However, these individuals are
still subject to the chapter 3 withholding rules that apply to
nonresident aliens for all income except wages. Wages
paid to these individuals are subject to graduated withholding. See Wages Paid to Employees, later.
Resident alien. A resident alien is an individual who is
not a citizen or national of the United States and who
meets either the green card test or the substantial presence test for the calendar year.

• Green card test. An alien is a resident alien if the in-

dividual was a lawful permanent resident of the United
States at any time during the calendar year. This is
known as the green card test because these aliens
hold immigrant visas (also known as green cards).

• Substantial presence test. An alien is considered a

resident alien if the individual meets the substantial
presence test for the calendar year. Under this test,
the individual must be physically present in the United
States on at least:

1. 31 days during the current calendar year; and

In most cases, the days the alien is in the United States
as a teacher, student, or trainee on an “F,” “J,” “M,” or “Q”
visa are not counted. This exception is for a limited period
of time.
For more information on resident and nonresident status, the tests for residence, and the exceptions to them,
see Pub. 519.
Note: If your employee is late in notifying you that their
status changed from nonresident alien to resident alien,
you may have to make an adjustment to Form 941 if that
employee was exempt from withholding of social security
and Medicare taxes as a nonresident alien. For more information on making adjustments, see chapter 13 of Pub. 15
(Circular E) .
Resident of a U.S. territory. A bona fide resident of
Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI), Guam, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI),
or American Samoa who is not a U.S. citizen or a U.S. national is treated as a nonresident alien for the withholding
rules explained here. A bona fide resident of a territory is
someone who:

• Meets the presence test,
• Does not have a tax home outside the territory, and
• Does not have a closer connection to the United
States or to a foreign country than to the territory.

For more information, see Pub. 570.
Foreign corporations. A foreign corporation is one that
does not fit the definition of a domestic corporation. A domestic corporation is one that was created or organized in
the United States or under the laws of the United States,
any of its states, or the District of Columbia.
Guam or CNMI corporations. A corporation created
or organized in, or under the laws of, Guam or the CNMI is
not considered a foreign corporation for the purpose of
withholding tax for the tax year if:

• At all times during the tax year less than 25% in value
of the corporation’s stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by foreign persons; and

• At least 20% of the corporation’s gross income is de-

rived from sources within Guam or the CNMI for the
3-year period ending with the close of the preceding
tax year of the corporation (or the period the corporation has been in existence, if less).

Note: The provisions discussed below under USVI and
American Samoa corporations will apply to Guam or
CNMI corporations when an implementing agreement is in
effect between the United States and that territory.
USVI and American Samoa corporations. A corporation created or organized in, or under the laws of, the

2. 183 days during the current year and the 2 preceding
years, counting all the days of physical presence in
the current year, but only 1/3 the number of days of
presence in the first preceding year, and only 1/6 the
number of days in the second preceding year.
12

Publication 515 (2026)

USVI or American Samoa is not considered a foreign corporation for the purposes of withholding tax for the tax
year if:

• At all times during the tax year less than 25% in value
of the corporation’s stock is owned, directly or
indirectly, by foreign persons;

• At least 65% of the corporation’s gross income is ef-

fectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the USVI, American Samoa, Guam, the CNMI,
or the United States for the 3-year period ending with
the close of the tax year of the corporation (or the period the corporation or any predecessor has been in
existence, if less); and

• No substantial part of the income of the corporation is
used, directly or indirectly, to satisfy obligations to a
person who is not a bona fide resident of the USVI,
American Samoa, Guam, the CNMI, or the United
States.

Foreign private foundations. A private foundation that
was created or organized under the laws of a foreign
country is a foreign private foundation. Gross investment
income from sources within the United States paid to a
qualified foreign private foundation is subject to withholding at a 4% rate (unless exempted by a treaty) rather than
the ordinary statutory 30% rate.
Other foreign organizations, associations, and charitable institutions. An organization may be exempt from
income tax under section 501(a) and chapter 4 withholding tax even if it was formed under foreign law. In most cases, you do not have to withhold tax on payments of income to these foreign tax-exempt organizations unless the
IRS has determined that they are foreign private foundations.
Payments to these organizations, however, must be reported on Form 1042-S if the payment is subject to chapter 3 withholding, even though no tax is withheld.
You must withhold tax on the unrelated business income (as described in Pub. 598) of foreign tax-exempt organizations in the same way that you would withhold tax
on similar income of nonexempt organizations when the
organization does not provide you a Form W-8ECI to certify that the income is effectively connected with a U.S.
trade or business of the organization.

means any entity that is not a U.S. person and includes a
territory entity as defined in Regulations section
1.1471-1(b)(129).
A foreign entity is subject to chapter 4 withholding if it is
a nonparticipating FFI or a passive NFFE that does not
provide the appropriate certification regarding its substantial U.S. owners. A nonparticipating FFI is an FFI other
than a participating FFI, deemed-compliant FFI, or exempt
beneficial owner. See Definitions, later, for the definitions
of these terms.
A passive NFFE is:

• An NFFE other than a publicly traded corporation,
• Certain affiliated entities related to a publicly traded
corporation,

• Certain territory entities,
• Active NFFEs, or
• Excluded FFIs.
For chapter 4 purposes, a U.S. person does not include
a foreign insurance company that has made an election
under section 953(d) if it is a specified insurance company
(defined in Regulations section 1.1471-5(e)(1)(iv)) and is
not licensed to do business in any state. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, a withholding agent should treat such entity
as a U.S. person for purposes of documenting the entity’s
status for purposes of chapters 3 and 4.

Documentation
Documentation for Chapter 3
For purposes of chapter 3, in most cases, you must withhold 30% from the gross amount paid to a foreign payee
unless you can reliably associate the payment with valid
documentation that establishes either of the following.

• The payee is a U.S. person.
• The payee is a foreign person that is the beneficial

owner of the income and is entitled to a reduced rate
of withholding under the Internal Revenue Code, or an
applicable income tax treaty.

U.S. branches of foreign persons. In most cases, a
payment to a U.S. branch of a foreign person is a payment
made to the foreign person. However, you may treat payments to U.S. branches of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies (discussed earlier) as payments made to
a U.S. person, if you and the U.S. branch have agreed to
do so, and if their agreement is evidenced by a withholding certificate, Form W-8IMY. For this purpose, a territory
financial institution acting as an intermediary or that is a
flow-through entity is treated as a U.S. branch.

For rules related to when a withholding agent may rely
on an otherwise valid withholding certificate received electronically from a third-party repository, see Regulations
section 1.1441-1(e)(4)(iv)(E).

Additional Rules Specific to Chapter 4

If you make a withholdable payment, you must determine
the chapter 4 status of payees, beneficial owners, intermediaries, and flow-through entities receiving the payment to
the extent required for chapter 4 purposes. You must also

A payee may be subject to chapter 4 withholding only if it
is a foreign entity. A foreign entity for chapter 4 purposes
Publication 515 (2026)

If withholding is applied under chapter 4 on a payment,
no withholding will be required on such payment under
chapter 3.

Documentation for Chapter 4

13

determine the chapter 4 status of persons that own an interest in an entity receiving a withholdable payment that
you treat as an owner-documented FFI, provided you are
either a U.S. FI, participating FFI, or reporting Model 1 FFI.
To establish chapter 4 status, you must generally obtain a
valid withholding certificate or documentary evidence that
you can reliably associate with the payment. If you make a
payment to a passive NFFE, you must obtain either a certification that the NFFE does not have any substantial U.S.
owners, or the name, address, and TIN of each substantial U.S. owner of the NFFE (or, under an applicable IGA,
each controlling person that is a specified U.S. person).
You can reliably associate a payment with a Form W-8
for purposes of establishing a payee’s chapter 4 status in
most cases if, prior to the payment, you:

• Obtain a valid form that contains the information required for chapter 4 purposes,

• Can reliably determine how much of the payment relates to the form, and

• Have no actual knowledge or reason to know that any
of the information, certifications, or statements in, or
associated with, the form is unreliable or incorrect for
chapter 4 purposes.

See Standards of Knowledge for Purposes of Chapter 4, later, for the reason to know standards that apply for
chapter 4 purposes.
For the requirements for documenting specific chapter 4 statuses of persons receiving withholdable payments, see Regulations section 1.1471-3(d). For rules related to when a withholding agent may rely on an
otherwise valid withholding certificate received electronically from a third-party repository, see Regulations section
1.1441-1(e)(4)(iv)(E). Also, see Regulations section
1.1471-3(d) for the extent to which a withholding agent
may rely on documentary evidence (other than a Form
W-8) to establish the chapter 4 status of an entity payee,
including the forms of documentary evidence permitted for
each specific chapter 4 status. For the requirements for
documentary evidence, see Regulations section
1.1471-3(c)(5). If you make a withholdable payment to an
entity payee and cannot reliably associate the payment
with a valid withholding certificate or valid documentary
evidence, you must apply the chapter 4 presumption rules
described in Presumption Rules for Chapter 4, later.
You may rely on the same documentation for purposes
of both chapters 3 and 4 provided the documentation is
sufficient to meet the requirements of each chapter. For
example, you may use a Form W-8BEN-E to obtain both
the chapter 3 and chapter 4 statuses of an entity providing
the form.

Additional Documentation Rules
Applicable to Chapters 3 and 4
In most cases, you must reliably associate the payment
with valid documentation to apply reduced withholding
and must get the documentation before you make the
payment. The documentation is not valid if you know, or
14

have reason to know, that it is unreliable or incorrect. See
Standards of Knowledge for Purposes of Chapter 3 and
Standards of Knowledge for Purposes of Chapter 4, later.
If you cannot reliably associate a payment with valid
documentation, you must use the presumption rules discussed later to determine the rate of withholding. For example, if you do not have documentation or you cannot
determine the part of a payment that is allocable to specific documentation, you must use the presumption rules
of section 1441.
The specific types of documentation are discussed in
this section. However, see Withholding on Specific Income, later, as well as the instructions to the particular
forms. As the withholding agent, you may also want to see
the Instructions for the Requester of Forms W-8BEN,
W-8BEN-E, W-8ECI, W-8EXP, and W-8IMY.
Sections 1446(a) and (f) withholding. Under section
1446(a), a partnership must withhold tax on its ECTI allocable to its foreign partner(s) or, for a partnership that is a
PTP, the PTP or a nominee for a PTP distribution must
withhold on the amount of the distribution subject to section 1446(a) withholding made to its foreign partner(s). In
most cases, a partnership (or nominee when applicable)
determines if a partner is a foreign partner and the partner’s tax classification is based on the withholding certificate provided by the partner. This is the same documentation that is provided for chapter 3 withholding, but may
require additional information, as discussed under each of
the forms in this section. For information on section
1446(a) withholding, go to Partnership Withholding on
ECTI, later.
For information on section 1446(f) withholding, go to
Section 1446(f) Withholding, later.
Documentation rule for joint payees. If you make a
payment to joint payees (such as holders of a joint account), you need to get documentation from each payee. If
you make a payment to joint payees and cannot reliably
associate the payment with documentation from all of the
payees, you must generally presume the payment is made
to an unidentified U.S. person. If the payment is a withholdable payment and any of the payees do not appear,
by name or other information in the account file, to be an
individual, you must treat the entire amount as a payment
made to an undocumented foreign person. However, if
one of the joint payees has provided you with a Form W-9,
you must treat the payment as made to that payee.
Form W-9. In most cases, you can treat the payee as a
U.S. person if the payee gives you a Form W-9. The Form
W-9 can be used only by a U.S. person and must contain
the payee’s TIN. U.S. persons are not subject to chapter 3
withholding (or withholding under section 1446(a) or (f)),
but may be subject to:

• Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding under
section 3406,

• Reporting as a U.S. account holder of a participating
FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, and

Publication 515 (2026)

• Classification as a recalcitrant account holder of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI for
chapter 4 purposes (including chapter 4 withholding)
when the FFI is unable to report the information required with respect to the account holder.

Forms W-8. In most cases, a foreign payee of the income should give you a form in the Form W-8 series.
If certain requirements are met, the foreign person can
give you documentary evidence, rather than a Form W-8
for chapter 3 or 4 purposes. You can rely on documentary
evidence in lieu of a Form W-8 for an amount paid outside
the United States with respect to an offshore obligation.
Refer to Offshore obligations, later, to determine whether
a payment qualifies as such a payment.
Other documentation. Other documentation may be required to claim an exemption from, or a reduced rate of,
chapter 3 withholding on pay for personal services. The
nonresident alien individual may have to give you a Form
W-4 or a Form 8233. These forms are discussed in Pay for
Personal Services Performed under Withholding on Specific Income, later.

Beneficial Owners
If all the appropriate requirements have been established
on a Form W-8BEN, W-8BEN-E, W-8ECI, W-8EXP, or, if
applicable, on documentary evidence, you can treat the
payee as a foreign beneficial owner.
Claiming treaty benefits for purposes of chapter 3.
You may apply a reduced rate of withholding under chapter 3 to a foreign person that provides a Form W-8 claiming a reduced rate of withholding under an income tax
treaty only if the person provides a U.S. or foreign TIN and
certifies that:

• It is a resident of a treaty country;
• It is the beneficial owner of the income;
• If it is an entity, it derives the income within the meaning of section 894 (it is not fiscally transparent); and

• It meets any of the applicable LOB tests contained in
the treaty and specifies the test under which it qualifies for benefits.

If the payment you make is a withholdable payment to
an entity, a requirement to withhold under chapter 4 may
apply based on the chapter 4 status of the payee regardless of whether a claim of treaty benefits may apply to
such payee or other person receiving the income.
An entity derives income for which it is claiming treaty
benefits only if the entity is not treated as fiscally transparent for that income. See Fiscally transparent entities
claiming treaty benefits, discussed earlier under
Flow-Through Entities.
LOB provisions in income tax treaties generally prevent
third-country residents (unless the treaty contains a derivative benefits rule) and others that do not have a substantial nexus to the treaty country from obtaining treaty benefits. For example, a foreign corporation may not be entitled
to a reduced rate of withholding unless a minimum
Publication 515 (2026)

percentage of its owners are citizens or residents of the
United States or the treaty country. Foreign entities that
are residents of a country whose income tax treaty with
the United States contains an LOB article are eligible for
treaty benefits only if they satisfy one of the objective tests
under the LOB article or obtain a favorable discretionary
determination from the U.S. competent authority.
The exemptions from, or reduced rates of, U.S. tax vary
under each treaty. You must check the provisions of the
tax treaty that apply. See Tax Treaties, later, for information
on how to access tax treaties.
If you know, or have reason to know, that an owner of
income is not eligible for treaty benefits claimed or if the
United States does not have an income tax treaty in force
with that country, you may not reduce the rate of withholding. You are not, however, responsible for misstatements
on a Form W-8, documentary evidence, or statements accompanying documentary evidence for which you did not
have actual knowledge, or reason to know, that the statements were incorrect. Certain withholding agents, such as
FIs, have limited reason-to-know requirements for this purpose. See Regulations section 1.1441-7(b) for these requirements.
Exceptions to TIN requirement. A foreign person
does not have to provide a U.S. or foreign TIN to claim a
reduced rate of withholding under a treaty for chapter 3
purposes if the requirements for the following exceptions
are met.

• Income from marketable securities (discussed next).
• Unexpected payments to an individual (discussed under U.S. or Foreign TINs, later).

The allowance to provide a foreign TIN (rather than a
U.S. TIN) does not apply to a payment to compensate an
individual for personal services.
See U.S. or Foreign TINs, later, for when a foreign person is required to provide a foreign TIN for purposes other
than making a treaty claim.
Marketable securities. A Form W-8 provided to
claim treaty benefits does not need a U.S. or foreign TIN if
the foreign beneficial owner is claiming the benefits on income from marketable securities for chapter 3 purposes.
For this purpose, income from a marketable security consists of the following items.

• Dividends and interest from stocks and debt obligations that are actively traded.

• Dividends from any redeemable security issued by an
investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (mutual fund).

• Dividends, interest, or royalties from units of beneficial
interest in a unit investment trust that are (or were
upon issuance) publicly offered and are registered
with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933.

• Income related to loans of any of the above securities.
Offshore obligations. An offshore obligation is an account maintained at an office or branch of a bank or other
FI located outside the United States or an obligation, contract, or other instrument with respect to which the payer
15

of the payment is either engaged in business as a broker
or dealer in securities or an FI that engages in significant
activities at an office or branch located outside the United
States.
A payment is made outside the United States if you
complete the acts necessary to effect the payment outside
the United States. However, an amount paid by a bank or
other FI on a deposit or account will usually be treated as
paid at the branch or office where the amount is credited
unless the other requirements of Regulations section
1.6049-5(e)(2) are met with respect to the branch or office, unless the amount is collected by the FI as an agent
of the payee.
If a payment is made outside the United States with respect to an offshore obligation, a payee may give you
documentary evidence, rather than a Form W-8, to establish that the payee is a foreign person. See Regulations
section 1.6049-5(c)(1) for the requirements for documentary evidence for offshore obligations. For accounts
opened on or after July 1, 2014, through December 31,
2014, you may use the rules regarding the use of documentary evidence under Regulations sections 1.6049-5(c)
(1) and (c)(4) as in effect prior to the issuance of the temporary regulations.
You may rely on documentary evidence given to you by
an NQI or a flow-through entity with its Form W-8IMY. This
rule applies even though you make the payment to an NQI
or flow-through entity in the United States. In most cases,
the NQI or flow-through entity that gives you documentary
evidence will also have to give you a withholding statement, discussed later.
Documentary evidence. You may apply a reduced
rate of withholding to income from marketable securities
(discussed earlier) paid outside the United States for
chapter 3 purposes with respect to an offshore obligation
if the beneficial owner gives you documentary evidence in
place of a Form W-8. To claim treaty benefits, the documentary evidence must be one of the following.
1. A certificate of residence that:
a. Is issued by a tax official of the treaty country of
which the foreign beneficial owner claims to be a
resident,
b. States that the person has filed its most recent income tax return as a resident of that country, and
c. Is issued within 3 years before it is presented to
you.
2. Documentation for an individual that:
a. Includes the individual’s name, address, and photograph;
b. Is an official document issued by an authorized
governmental body; and
c. Is issued no more than 3 years prior to being presented to you.
3. Documentation for an entity that:

b. Includes the address of its principal office in the
treaty country, and
c. Is an official document issued by an authorized
governmental body.
In addition to the documentary evidence, a foreign beneficial owner that is an entity must provide a statement
that it derives the income for which it claims treaty benefits
and that it meets one or more of the tests set forth in an
LOB article, if any (or similar provision), contained in the
applicable treaty and must identify the specific test in the
LOB article under which it qualifies for benefits. In the
case of a withholdable payment made to an entity, you
must also obtain the applicable documentation to establish that withholding does not apply under chapter 4.
Form W-8BEN. This form is used by a foreign individual
to:

• Establish foreign status;
• Claim that such individual is the beneficial owner of

the income for which the form is being furnished or a
partner in a partnership subject to withholding under
section 1446(a) or a transferee of an interest in a partnership under section 1446(f); and

• If applicable, claim a reduced rate of, or exemption
from, withholding under an income tax treaty.

A withholding agent, in some cases, may substitute its
own form for a Form W-8BEN for individuals.
Form W-8BEN may also be used to claim that the foreign individual is exempt from Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding for income that is not subject to chapter 3 withholding and is not a withholdable payment. For
example, a foreign person may provide a Form W-8BEN to
a broker to establish that the gross proceeds from the sale
of securities are not subject to Form 1099 reporting or
backup withholding.
Date of birth requirement for certain account holders. If you are a U.S. office or branch of a depository institution, custodial institution, investment entity, or specified
insurance company (each as defined in Regulations section 1.1471-5(e)) documenting an individual account
holder (as defined in Regulations section 1.1471-5(a)(3))
of an account that is a financial account (as defined in
Regulations section 1.1471-5(b)), you must obtain the individual account holder’s date of birth on the Form
W-8BEN in order for the form to not be invalid for a payment of U.S. source income reportable on Form 1042-S. If
the individual’s date of birth is not provided on the Form
W-8BEN, the form is still valid if you otherwise have the
date of birth in your account files for the account holder or
you obtain the date of birth on a written statement (including a written statement transmitted by email) from the account holder and associate the written statement with the
Form W-8BEN. See the related foreign TIN requirement
discussed under Foreign TIN requirement for account
holders, later, which also generally applies with respect to
accounts described in this paragraph.

a. Includes the name of the entity,
16

Publication 515 (2026)

Form W-8BEN-E. This form is used by a foreign entity to:

• Establish foreign status;
• Establish an entity’s chapter 4 status to the extent required for chapter 4 purposes;

• Claim that such entity is the beneficial owner of the income for which the form is being furnished or a partner in a partnership subject to withholding under section 1446(a) or (f) (excluding a partnership or grantor
trust); and

• If applicable, claim a reduced rate of, or exemption
from, chapter 3 withholding under an income tax
treaty.

Form W-8BEN-E may also be used to claim that the foreign entity is exempt from Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding for income that is not subject to chapter 3 withholding and is not a withholdable payment. For
example, a foreign entity may provide a Form W-8BEN-E
to a broker to establish that the gross proceeds from the
sale of securities are not subject to Form 1099 reporting or
backup withholding.
An entity payee may also provide a Form W-8BEN-E to
establish that certain income from notional principal contracts is not effectively connected with the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business. In addition, a foreign hybrid entity
claiming treaty benefits on its own behalf should provide
you with a Form W-8BEN-E with respect to the income for
which treaty benefits are being claimed. In certain cases,
a similar agreed form may be associated with the payment
instead of a Form W-8BEN-E.
Form W-8ECI. This form is used by a foreign person to:

• Establish foreign status,
• Claim that such person is the beneficial owner of the
income for which the form is being furnished, and

• Claim that the income is effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
(See Effectively Connected Income, later.)

• Claim that the person is a dealer in securities for the

exception to withholding under Regulations section
1.1446(f)-4(b)(6). See Section 1446(f): PTP Interests,
later.

ECI for which a valid Form W-8ECI has been provided
is generally not subject to chapter 3 or chapter 4 withholding.
If a partner submits this form to a partnership, the income claimed to be effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business is subject to withholding
under section 1446. If the partner has made, or will make,
an election under section 871(d) or 882(d), the partner
must submit Form W-8ECI, and attach a copy of the election, or a statement of intent to elect, to the form.
Caution: If the partner’s only ECI is the income allocated
from the partnership and the partner is not making the
election under section 871(d) or 882(d), the partner
should provide Form W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E to the partnership.
Publication 515 (2026)

Form W-8EXP. This form is used by a foreign government, international organization, foreign central bank of issue, foreign tax-exempt organization, foreign private foundation, or government of a U.S. territory to:

• Establish foreign status,
• Establish the entity’s chapter 4 status to the extent required for chapter 4 purposes,

• Claim that such person is the beneficial owner of the
income for which the form is being furnished, and

• Claim an exemption from withholding under both

chapter 3 and chapter 4 for such entity or that the entity is a foreign private foundation subject to the 4%
tax. See section 1443 for the withholding required for
a payment made to such an entity.

If the government or organization named on the form is
a partner in a partnership carrying on a trade or business
in the United States, the ECTI allocable to the partner is
subject to withholding under section 1446.
See also Foreign Governments and Certain Other Foreign Organizations, later.

Foreign Intermediaries and Foreign
Flow-Through Entities
Payments made to a foreign intermediary or foreign
flow-through entity that is not a QI that assumes primary
chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility, a WP, a WT, or
a branch treated as a U.S. person (see U.S. branches of
foreign banks and foreign insurance companies, earlier)
are treated as made to the payees on whose behalf the intermediary or entity acts except when the intermediary or
flow-through entity is subject to chapter 4 withholding. See
Flow-Through Entities and Foreign intermediaries, earlier.
The Form W-8IMY provided by a foreign intermediary or
flow-through entity must be accompanied by additional information for you to be able to reliably associate the payment with a payee. The additional information required depends on the type of intermediary or flow-through entity
and the extent of the withholding responsibilities it assumes.
Form W-8IMY. This form is used by foreign intermediaries and foreign flow-through entities, as well as certain
U.S. branches for chapter 3 or 4 purposes, or when applicable, for section 1446(a) or (f) purposes, to:

• Represent that a foreign person is a QI or an NQI;
• Establish the entity’s chapter 4 status when required
for chapter 4 purposes;

• When applicable, certify that the entity is a participat-

ing FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, or a QI
that may provide a withholding statement allocating a
payment to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S.
payees;

• Represent, if applicable, that the QI is assuming pri-

mary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility
and/or primary Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding responsibility;
17

• Represent that a foreign partnership or a foreign simple or grantor trust is a WP or a WT;

• Represent that a foreign flow-through entity is a nonwithholding foreign partnership, or a nonwithholding
foreign trust;

• Represent that the provider is a U.S. branch of a for-

eign bank or insurance company and either is agreeing to be treated as a U.S. person or is transmitting
documentation of the persons on whose behalf it is
acting for the payments;

• Represent its status as a qualified securities lender

with respect to payments of U.S. source substitute dividends;

• Represent its status as a QI acting as a QDD for certain payments; and

• Represent that, for purposes of section 1446, it is an

upper-tier foreign partnership or a foreign grantor trust
and that the form is being used to transmit the required documentation. For information on qualifying as
an upper-tier foreign partnership, see Regulations
section 1.1446-5.

For purposes of chapter 4, an intermediary or
flow-through entity that is a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI receiving a withholdable payment
may, instead of providing documentation for each payee,
provide pooled allocation information, as described under
FFI withholding statement next.
FFI withholding statement. An FFI withholding
statement must be provided by a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI (including a U.S. branch of a
participating FFI that is not treated as a U.S. person) that
is an NQI, nonwithholding foreign partnership, nonwithholding foreign trust, or a QI that makes an election to be
withheld on for chapter 4 purposes (that is, a QI that does
not assume chapter 3 or 4 withholding responsibility), as
described under qualified intermediary (QI), later.
An FFI withholding statement may include either
payee-specific information or pooled information. If the
withholding statement includes pooled information, the
withholding statement must indicate the portion of the
payment allocable to:

• A chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees,
• Each class of recalcitrant account holders under Regulations section 1.1471-4(d)(6) or a single pool for a
QI, or

• A class of nonparticipating FFIs.
If the withholding statement includes payee-specific information, it must indicate both the portion of the payment
allocated to each payee and each payee’s chapter 4 status.
Any withholding statement provided by an FFI other
than an FFI acting as a WP, WT, or QI with respect to the
account must also identify each intermediary or
flow-through entity that receives the payment and such
entity’s chapter 4 status and GIIN, when applicable.

18

For additional information on the requirements for FFI
withholding statements, see Regulations section
1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B)(2).
Chapter 4 withholding statement. A chapter 4 withholding statement must be provided by the following.

• A territory financial institution that does not agree to
be treated as a U.S. person.

• A U.S. branch that is not a U.S. branch of a participating FFI.

• An NFFE or certified deemed-compliant FFI that is an
NQI, nonwithholding foreign partnership, or nonwithholding foreign trust and is not the payee.

A chapter 4 withholding statement must contain the following.

• The name, address, TIN (if any), entity type, and
chapter 4 status of each payee.

• The amount allocated to each payee.
• A valid withholding certificate or other appropriate

documentation sufficient to establish the chapter 4
status of each payee, and each intermediary or
flow-through entity that receives the payment on behalf of the payee.

• Any other information the withholding agent reasonably requests in order to fulfill its obligations under
chapter 4.

A chapter 4 withholding statement is permitted to provide pooled allocation information with respect to payees
that are treated as nonparticipating FFIs.
Caution: A Form W-8 must include a U.S. TIN for a partner to be valid for purposes of a claim of exemption or reduced withholding under section 1446(a) or (f). See the instructions for the applicable Form W-8.

Qualified Intermediary (QI)
In most cases, a QI is any foreign intermediary that has
entered into a QI agreement (discussed earlier) with the
IRS with respect to the withholding and reporting required
under chapters 3 and 4 and for purposes of Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding under section 3406. Additionally, starting January 1, 2023, a QI may also assume
certain withholding responsibilities with respect to PTP
distributions (including withholding under section 1446(a))
and certain transfers of PTP interests for section 1446(f)
purposes when acting as an intermediary. For discussion
of those provisions, see Publicly Traded Partnership Distributions and Section 1446(f): PTP Interests, later. A foreign
entity that is a QI acting as a QDD or that is acting with respect to payments of substitute interest (as permitted by
the QI agreement) can act as a QI even though it is not receiving payments as an intermediary. A foreign entity that
has received a QI employer identification number (QI-EIN)
may represent on Form W-8IMY that it is a QI. The QI can
claim that it is a QI until the IRS revokes its QI-EIN.
A QI can be either an FFI or an NFFE. An FFI that is a
QI must be a participating FFI (including a reporting Model
Publication 515 (2026)

2 FFI), a registered deemed-compliant FFI (including a reporting Model 1 FFI and a nonreporting Model 2 FFI treated as a registered deemed-compliant FFI), or an FFI treated as a deemed-compliant FFI under an applicable
Model 1 IGA that is subject to similar due diligence and reporting requirements with respect to its U.S. accounts as
those applicable to a registered deemed-compliant FFI
(including the requirement to register with the IRS) (defined in the QI agreement as a “registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI”). Thus, you must identify the chapter 4 status of an FFI, certifying its status as a QI as one of
the chapter 4 statuses referenced in the preceding sentence on a Form W-8IMY when a chapter 4 status is required for chapter 4 purposes.
Responsibilities and documentation for chapters 3
and 4. Payments made to a QI that does not assume primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities are
treated as paid to its account holders. However, a QI is not
required to provide you with documentation it obtains from
its foreign account holders or from U.S. exempt recipients
(U.S. persons exempt from Form 1099 reporting). Instead,
it provides you with a withholding statement that contains
either chapter 3 or chapter 4 withholding rate pool information. A chapter 4 withholding rate pool is a payment of
a single type of income that is a withholdable payment that
is allocated to payees that are nonparticipating FFIs or recalcitrant account holders (in a single pool). A chapter 4
withholding rate pool also means a payment of a single
type of income that is allocated to U.S. payees when the
QI provides the certification required on Form W-8IMY for
allocating payments to this pool and a withholding statement. A QI may include in its chapter 4 withholding rate
pools its direct account holders as well as account holders
of another QI or a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI. With respect to a payment to a
foreign person for which no chapter 4 withholding is required, a chapter 3 withholding rate pool is a payment of a
single type of income that is subject to a single rate of
withholding and that is reported on Form 1042-S under a
single chapter 4 exemption code. Payments made to U.S.
exempt recipients may also be included in a chapter 3
withholding rate pool to which withholding does not apply.
A QI is required to provide you with information regarding U.S. nonexempt recipients (U.S. persons subject to
Form 1099 information reporting) and to provide you withholding rate pool information separately for each such
U.S. person unless it has assumed primary Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding responsibility and meets
the requirements to include these recipients in a U.S.
payee pool. For the alternative procedure for providing
withholding rate pool information for U.S. nonexempt persons not included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of
U.S. payees, see the Instructions for Form W-8IMY.
The withholding statement must:
1. Designate those accounts for which it acts as a QI;
2. Designate those accounts for which it assumes primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility
and/or primary Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding responsibility;
Publication 515 (2026)

3. If applicable, designate the accounts for which it acts
as a qualified securities lender with respect to any
U.S. source substitute dividend payments;
4. If applicable, designate those accounts for which it
acts as a QDD (see the QDD withholding statement
section of the Instructions for Form W-8IMY for additional requirements);
5. Provide sufficient information for you to allocate the
payment, as applicable, to chapter 3 withholding rate
pools and, for payments that are withholdable payments, chapter 4 withholding rate pools of nonparticipating FFIs and recalcitrant account holders when the
QI has not assumed primary chapter 3 or 4 withholding responsibility; and
6. Provide sufficient information for you to allocate payments to each U.S. nonexempt recipient or to a pool
of U.S. payees to the extent described earlier under
this heading.
The extent to which you must have withholding rate
pool information depends on the withholding and reporting
obligations assumed by the QI.
If a QI that is permitted to do so by the QI agreement
obtains documentary evidence under the “KYC” rules that
apply to the QI under local law, and the documentary evidence is of a type specified in an attachment to the QI
agreement, the documentary evidence remains valid until
there is a change in circumstances or the QI knows the information is incorrect. A QI may rely on a Form W-8 until
its validity expires under Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)
(4)(ii) and may rely on documentary evidence not obtained pursuant to “KYC” rules until its validity expires under Regulations section 1.6049-5(c).
Primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities not assumed. If a QI does not assume primary
chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility or primary
Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding responsibility for the payment, you can reliably associate the payment with valid documentation only to the extent you can
reliably determine the part of the payment that relates to
each withholding rate pool for foreign and U.S. payees.
Unless the alternative procedure applies and the QI is permitted to include U.S. nonexempt recipients in a chapter 4
withholding rate pool of U.S. payees, the QI must provide
you with a separate withholding rate pool for each U.S.
nonexempt recipient that must be reported on Form 1099.
If you and the QI agree, the QI may apply the alternative
procedures for U.S. nonexempt recipients by establishing
a single withholding rate pool (not subject to backup withholding) for all U.S. nonexempt recipient account holders
for whom the QI is required to report on Form 1099 and
has provided you with Forms W-9 prior to you making the
reportable payment, or, if applicable, designated broker
proceeds to which backup withholding does not apply.
The QI must provide a Form W-9 or, in the absence of the
form, the name, address, and TIN, if available, for each
U.S. nonexempt recipient.
Primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities assumed. If you make a payment to a QI that
19

assumes primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities (but not primary Form 1099 reporting and backup
withholding responsibility), you can reliably associate the
payment with valid documentation only to the extent you
can reliably determine the part of the payment that relates
to the chapter 4 withholding rate pools and chapter 3 withholding rate pools, as applicable, and the part of the payment attributable to withholding rate pools for each U.S.
nonexempt recipient, unless the alternative procedure applies for Form 1099 reporting and/or backup withholding
purposes. The QI must provide a Form W-9 or, in the absence of the form, the name, address, and TIN, if available, for such person.
Primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities and Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding responsibilities assumed. If you make a payment
to a QI that assumes primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding
responsibilities and primary Form 1099 reporting and
backup withholding responsibility, you can reliably associate the payment with valid documentation provided that
you receive a valid Form W-8IMY. It is not necessary to associate the payment with any chapter 3 or chapter 4 withholding rate pools.
If you make a payment to a QI that also acts as a QDD,
the QI must provide a withholding statement designating
the accounts for which it acts as a QDD even if it assumes
primary withholding responsibility for all payments. In addition, the QI must provide all information required for the
QDD accounts.
Example. You make a payment of U.S. source dividends to a QI. It has five customers: two are foreign persons who have provided documentation entitling them to a
15% rate of withholding on dividends; two are foreign persons subject to a 30% rate of withholding on dividends;
and one is a U.S. individual who provides it with a Form
W-9. Each customer is entitled to 20% of the dividend
payment. The QI does not assume any primary withholding responsibility. The QI gives you a Form W-8IMY with
which it associates the Form W-9 and a withholding statement that allocates 40% of the dividend to a 15% withholding rate pool, 40% to a 30% withholding rate pool, and
20% to the U.S. individual. You should report on Forms
1042-S, 40% of the payment as made to a 15% rate dividend pool and 40% of the payment as made to a 30% rate
dividend pool. The part of the payment allocable to the
U.S. individual (20%) is reportable on Form 1099-DIV.
Joint account treatment for chapters 3 and 4. A QI
may apply joint account treatment to a partnership or trust
if the partnership or trust meets the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is a certified deemed-compliant FFI (other than a

registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI), an
owner-documented FFI with respect to the QI, an exempt beneficial owner, an NFFE, or is covered as an
account that is excluded from the definition of financial
account under Annex II of an applicable IGA or under

20

Regulations section 1.1471-5(a) and has provided the
QI with a certification that it has maintained such
chapter 4 status during each certification period.

• It is a direct account holder of the QI.
• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a

flow-through entity or is acting as an intermediary for a
payment made by the QI to the partnership or trust,
and none of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a
U.S. person.

• None of its foreign partners, beneficiaries, or owners is
subject to withholding or reporting under chapter 4.

• It agrees to make available upon request to the QI (or

QI’s reviewer) records that establish it has provided
the QI with documentation for purposes of chapters 3
and 4 for all of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners.

For information on these rules, see section 4.05 of the
QI agreement in Revenue Procedure 2022-43.
Agency option. A QI may apply the agency option to a
partnership or trust under which the partnership or trust
agrees to act as an agent of the QI and to apply the provisions of the QI agreement to its partners, beneficiaries, or
owners, except for any account holder for which it acts as
a QDD. A QI and a partnership or trust may only apply the
agency option if the partnership or trust meets the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is either a direct account holder of the QI or an indi-

rect account holder of the QI that is a direct partner,
beneficiary, or owner of a partnership or trust to which
the QI also applies the agency option.

• It is an FFI that is a certified deemed-compliant FFI

(other than a registered deemed-compliant Model 1
IGA FFI), an owner-documented FFI with respect to
the QI, an NFFE, an exempt beneficial owner, or is
covered as an account that is excluded from the definition of financial account under Annex II of an applicable IGA or under Regulations section 1.1471-5(a)
and has provided the QI with a certification that it has
maintained such chapter 4 status during each certification period.

• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a WT,

WP, participating FFI, registered deemed-compliant
FFI, registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI, or
another QI acting as an intermediary for a payment
made by the QI to the partnership or trust.

• It agrees to permit the QI to treat its direct and indirect
partners, beneficiaries, or owners as direct and indirect account holders, respectively, of the QI under the
QI agreement.

• It agrees to comply with the compliance procedures of
the QI agreement.

For information on these rules, see section 4.06 of the
QI agreement in Revenue Procedure 2022-43.
Publication 515 (2026)

Form 1042-S reporting. A QI is generally permitted to
report payments made to its foreign account holders on a
pooled basis rather than reporting payments to each account holder specifically. Pooled basis reporting is not
available for payments to certain account holders, such as
NQIs, QDDs, flow-through entities (discussed earlier) and
certain of their account holders and owners, private arrangement intermediaries, and, in certain circumstances,
QIs, WPs, and WTs. Notwithstanding these requirements,
separate Forms 1042-S are not issued to account holders
that the QI is permitted to include in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool.
Collective refund procedures. A QI may seek a refund
of tax withheld under chapters 3 and 4 on behalf of its account holders when the QI has not issued a Form 1042-S
to the account holders that received the payment that was
subject to overwithholding. The account holders, therefore, are not required to file claims for refund with the IRS
to obtain refunds, but rather may obtain them from the QI.
A QI may obtain a refund of tax withheld under chapter 4,
however, to the extent permitted under the QI agreement.

Nonqualified Intermediary (NQI)
If you are making a payment to an NQI or U.S. branch that
is using Form W-8IMY to transmit information about the
branch’s account holders or customers for chapter 3 or 4
purposes, you can treat the payment (or a part of the payment) as reliably associated with valid documentation
from a specific payee only if, before making the payment:

• You can allocate the payment to a valid Form W-8IMY;
• You can reliably determine how much of the payment
relates to valid documentation provided by a payee (a
person that is not itself a foreign intermediary,
flow-through entity, or U.S. branch with a chapter 4
withholding rate pool) (see Pooled withholding information, later); and

• You have sufficient information to report the payment

on Form 1042-S or Form 1099, if reporting is required.

Withholding statement. The NQI or U.S. branch must
give you certain information on a withholding statement
that is associated with the Form W-8IMY for chapter 3 or 4
purposes. A withholding statement must be updated to
keep the information accurate prior to each payment. See,
however, Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(3)(iv)(C)(3) for
when a withholding agent may instead accept an alternative withholding statement.
For chapter 4 purposes. An NQI receiving a withholdable payment must provide a withholding statement
that satisfies the requirements of an FFI withholding statement or, if the NQI is not a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI, a chapter 4 withholding statement.
An FFI withholding statement may allocate the payment
to chapter 4 reporting rate pools (as appropriate), including a chapter 4 withholding rate pool for nonparticipating
FFIs, recalcitrant account holders (in each class of account holders, as described in the chapter 4 regulations),
Publication 515 (2026)

and, for an NQI that is a participating FFI (including a reporting Model 2 FFI) or a registered deemed-compliant
FFI (including a reporting Model 1 FFI), U.S. payees. However, an NQI may allocate a payment of a reportable
amount (regardless of whether the payment is a withholdable payment) to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S.
payees when the NQI satisfies the requirements for providing such a pool, including the requirement to certify to
its status as a participating FFI, including a reporting
Model 2 FFI, or registered deemed-compliant FFI, including a reporting Model 1 FFI.
If the FFI withholding statement instead includes
payee-specific information for purposes of chapter 4, it
must indicate both the portion of the payment allocated to
each payee and each payee’s chapter 4 status. The withholding statement must also identify each intermediary or
flow-through entity that is receiving a payment (excluding
any intermediary or flow-through entity that is an account
holder or interest holder in another QI, WP, or WT), each
such entity’s chapter 4 status and GIIN (if applicable)
when required for chapter 4 purposes, and the chapter 4
withholding rate pools associated with each such entity.
A chapter 4 withholding statement must contain the
name, address, TIN (if any), entity type, chapter 4 status
of each payee, the amount allocated to each payee, and a
valid withholding certificate or other documentation sufficient to establish each payee’s chapter 4 status for payees
that are not included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool
of nonparticipating FFIs. The withholding statement must
also identify each intermediary or flow-through entity that
is receiving a payment (excluding any intermediary or
flow-through entity that is an account holder or interest
holder in another QI, WP, or WT), each such entity’s chapter 4 status and GIIN (if applicable), and the chapter 4
withholding rate pools associated with each such entity.
An allocation of a payment to an NQI, nonwithholding foreign partnership, or nonwithholding foreign trust of an
amount subject to chapter 3 withholding to a chapter 4
withholding rate pool of U.S. payees must identify the payees consistent with the description in Regulations section
1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B)(2)(iii).
For chapter 3 purposes. The withholding statement
should allocate for chapter 3 purposes only the portion of
the payment that was not allocated to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool or to a payee identified on a withholding
statement to whom withholding was applied under chapter 4. For chapter 3 purposes, a withholding statement
must include the information described below for a reportable amount.
1. The name, address, and TIN (if any, or if required) of
each person for whom documentation is provided.
2. The type of documentation (documentary evidence,
Form W-8, or Form W-9) for every person for whom
documentation has been provided, and, for a withholdable payment, that the documentation establishes the payee’s chapter 4 status to the extent required for chapter 4 purposes.
3. The status of the person for whom the documentation
has been provided, such as whether the person is a
21

U.S. exempt recipient, U.S. nonexempt recipient, or a
foreign person. For a foreign person, the statement
must indicate whether the person is the beneficial
owner or a foreign intermediary, flow-through entity, or
a U.S. branch that is not included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool or in a pool of payees under the alternative procedures (see Alternative procedure,
later).
4. The type of recipient the person is, based on the recipient codes used on Form 1042-S.
5. Information allocating each payment, by income type,
to each payee (including U.S. exempt and nonexempt
recipients) for whom documentation has been provided that is not included in a chapter 4 withholding rate
pool or in a pool of payees under the alternative procedures (see Alternative procedure, later).
6. The rate of withholding that applies to each foreign
person to whom a payment is allocated.
7. A foreign payee’s country of residence.
8. If a reduced rate of withholding is claimed under
chapter 3, the basis for a reduced rate of withholding
(for example, portfolio interest, treaty benefit, etc.).
9. In the case of treaty benefits claimed by entities,
whether the applicable LOB statement and the statement that the foreign person derives the income for
which treaty benefits are claimed, have been made.
10. The name, address, and TIN (if any) and, for a withholdable payment, the chapter 4 status (if required)
and GIIN (if applicable) of any other NQI, flow-through
entity, or U.S. branch from which the payee will directly receive a payment.
11. Any other information a withholding agent requests to
fulfill its reporting and withholding obligations.
Alternative procedure. Under this alternative procedure,
the NQI can give you the information that allocates each
payment to each foreign and U.S. exempt recipient or
chapter 4 withholding rate pool by January 31 following
the calendar year of payment, rather than before the payment is made, as otherwise required. To take advantage
of this procedure, the NQI must (a) inform you, on its withholding statement, that it is using the alternative procedure; and (b) obtain your consent. You must receive the
withholding statement with all the required information
(other than item 5) before the NQI makes the payment.
Caution: The alternative procedure cannot, however, be
used for payments to U.S. nonexempt recipients other
than those recipients included in a chapter 4 withholding
rate pool of U.S. payees. See Chapter 4, later. Therefore,
an NQI must provide you with allocation information for
any U.S. nonexempt recipients not included in a chapter 4
withholding rate pool of U.S. payees before the NQI
makes a payment.
Pooled withholding information for chapters 3 and
4. If an NQI uses the alternative procedure, it must provide you with withholding rate pool information, as
22

opposed to individual allocation information, before the
payment of a reportable amount. The NQI must provide
you with the payee specific allocation information (information allocating each payment to each payee) by January 31 following the calendar year of payment, except as
otherwise permitted for chapter 4 purposes, when using
this procedure.
Chapter 4. In the case of a reportable amount that is
also a withholdable payment, an NQI may include
amounts allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool
(other than a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees) and payees subject to chapter 4 withholding for
whom the NQI will provide payee-specific information in a
30% rate pool together with payees subject to chapter 3
withholding at the 30% rate. For the amount of the payment allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S.
payees, an NQI may include amounts allocable to the pool
with other amounts exempt from withholding (and an NQI
may allocate payments to this pool regardless of whether
the payment is a withholdable payment) and may not otherwise apply these provisions for payments made to U.S.
nonexempt recipients. The NQI must identify prior to the
payment each chapter 4 withholding rate pool to be allocated a portion of the payment, in addition to each payee
to be allocated the payments that is not included in such a
pool. The NQI must then also allocate, by January 31 following the calendar year of the payment, the portion of the
payment to each such pool in addition to allocating the
payment to each payee that is not included in the pool.
Failure to provide allocation information. If an NQI
fails to provide you with the payee specific allocation information for a withholding rate pool or chapter 4 withholding
rate pool by January 31, you must not apply the alternative
procedure to any of the NQI’s withholding rate pools from
that date forward. You must treat the payees as undocumented and apply the presumption rules, discussed later
in Presumption Rules. An NQI is deemed to have failed to
provide specific allocation information if it does not give
you such information for more than 10% of any one withholding rate pool.
However, if you receive such information by February
14, you may make the appropriate adjustments to repay
any excess withholding incurred between February 1 and
on or before February 14.
If the NQI fails to allocate more than 10% of the payment to a withholding rate pool by February 14 following
the calendar year of payment, you must file a Form
1042-S for each account holder in the pool on a pro-rata
basis (treating a chapter 4 withholding rate pool as an account holder for this purpose and excluding U.S. exempt
recipients). For example, if there are four account holders
in a withholding rate pool that receive a $100 payment and
the NQI fails to allocate more than $10 of the payment,
you must file four Forms 1042-S, one for each account
holder in the pool, showing $25 of income to each. You
must also check box 15 (the pro-rata basis reporting) on
each Form 1042-S. However, if the NQI provides allocation information for 90% or more of the payment to a
Publication 515 (2026)

withholding rate pool, the pro-rata reporting method is not
required. Instead, you must file a Form 1042-S for each
account holder for whom you have allocation information
and report the unallocated part of the payment on a Form
1042-S issued to “unknown recipient.”

Withholding Foreign Partnerships (WPs)
If you are making payments to a WP for chapter 3 or 4 purposes, you do not have to withhold if the WP is acting in
that capacity. The WP must assume primary chapters 3
and 4 withholding responsibility for amounts that are distributed to, or included in the distributive share of, any direct partner and may assume chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibilities for certain of its indirect partners. The
WP must withhold the amount required to be withheld. A
WP must provide you with a Form W-8IMY that certifies
that the WP is acting in that capacity and provides all
other information and certifications required by the form.
The Form W-8IMY must contain the WP-EIN and GIIN (if
applicable).
A WP can be either an FFI or an NFFE. An FFI (other
than a retirement fund) that is a WP must be a participating FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, or an FFI
treated as a deemed-compliant FFI under an applicable
Model 1 IGA that is subject to similar due diligence and reporting requirements with respect to its U.S. accounts as
those applicable to a registered deemed-compliant FFI
under Regulations section 1.1471-5(f)(1) (including the requirement to register with the IRS) (defined in the WP
agreement as a “registered deemed-compliant Model 1
IGA FFI”). Thus, an FFI certifying its status as a WP must
provide you a Form W-8IMY that certifies to one of the
chapter 4 statuses referenced in the preceding sentence
when a chapter 4 status is required.
Responsibilities of the WP. The WP must withhold under chapter 3 or 4 on the date it makes a distribution of a
withholdable payment or an amount subject to chapter 3
withholding to a direct foreign partner based on the Form
W-8 or W-9 it receives from its partners. If the partner’s
distributive share has not been distributed, the WP must
withhold on the partner’s distributive share on the earlier
of the date that the partnership must mail or otherwise
provide to the partner a Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) or the
due date for furnishing the statement (whether or not the
WP is required to furnish the statement).
The WP may determine the amount of withholding
based on a reasonable estimate of the partner’s distributive share of income subject to withholding for the year.
The WP must correct the estimated withholding to reflect
the actual distributive share on the earlier of the dates
mentioned in the preceding paragraph. If that date is after
the earlier of the due date (including extensions) for filing
the WP’s Form 1042-S or the date the WP actually issues
Form 1042-S for the calendar year, the WP may withhold
and report any adjustments required by correcting the information for the following calendar year.
Form 1042 filing. The WP must file Form 1042 even if
no amount was withheld. In addition to the information that
Publication 515 (2026)

is required for the Form 1042, the WP must attach a statement showing the amounts of any overwithholding or underwithholding adjustments and an explanation of those
adjustments.
Form 1042-S reporting. The WP can elect to report
payments made to its foreign direct partners on a pooled
basis for chapter 3 purposes rather than reporting payments to each direct partner in addition to reporting payments in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool to the extent
the WP is permitted to do so based on its chapter 4 status.
A WP can treat as its direct partners those indirect partners of the WP for which it applies joint account treatment
or the agency option (described later). A WP must otherwise issue a Form 1042-S to each partner to the extent it
is required to do so under the WP agreement. You may issue a single Form 1042-S for all payments you make to a
WP other than payments for which the entity does not act
as a WP. You may, however, have Form 1099 requirements
for certain indirect partners of a WP that are U.S. nonexempt recipients.
Collective refund procedures. A WP may seek a refund of tax withheld under chapters 3 and 4 on behalf of
its partners when the WP has not issued a Form 1042-S to
the partners that received the payment that was subject to
overwithholding. The partners, therefore, are not required
to file claims for refund with the IRS to obtain refunds, but
rather may obtain them from the WP. A WP may obtain a
refund of tax withheld under chapter 4 to the extent permitted under the WP agreement.
Reporting of U.S. partners. A WP must report its
U.S. partners on Schedule K-1 to the extent required under the WP agreement. If the WP is an FFI, it is also required to report each of its U.S. accounts (or U.S. reportable accounts if a reporting Model 1 FFI) on Form 8966
consistent with its chapter 4 requirements or the requirements of an IGA. If the WP is an NFFE, the WP must file
Form 8966 to report any partner that is an NFFE (other
than an excepted NFFE) with one or more substantial U.S.
owners (or, under an applicable IGA, controlling persons
that are specified U.S. persons) if the NFFE is the beneficial owner of a withholdable payment received by the WP.
The WP must also file a Form 8966 to report withholdable
payments made to a pass-through partner for which the
WP acts under the WP agreement that provides information on an account holder (or interest holder) that is an
NFFE (other than an excepted NFFE) with one or more
substantial U.S. owners (or, under an applicable IGA, controlling persons that are specified U.S. persons) and that
is the beneficial owner of the withholdable payment received by the WP, unless the pass-through partner certifies to the WP that it is reporting on the account holder (or
interest holder) pursuant to its U.S. account reporting requirements. The preceding sentence applies with respect
to a pass-through partner to which the WP applies the
agency option or which has partners, beneficiaries, or
owners that are indirect partners of the WP.
Joint account treatment. Under special procedures
provided in the WP agreement, a WP may apply joint account treatment to a partnership or trust that is a direct
23

partner of the WP. A WP that applies the joint account option must elect to perform pool reporting for amounts subject to chapter 3 withholding that either are not withholdable payments or are withholdable payments for which no
chapter 4 withholding is required and that the WP distributes to, or includes in the distributive share of, a foreign direct partner. These rules only apply to a partnership or
trust that meets the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is a certified deemed-compliant FFI (other than a

registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI, as defined in the WP agreement), an owner-documented
FFI, an exempt beneficial owner, or an NFFE (other
than a WP or WT).

• It is a direct partner of the WP.
• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a
flow-through entity or intermediary.

• None of the partnership’s or trust’s partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a U.S. person or is subject to withholding or reporting under chapter 4.

• It agrees to make available upon request to the WP (or
the WP’s auditor) records that establish it has provided the WP with documentation for purposes of chapters 3 and 4 for all of its partners, beneficiaries, or
owners.

For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.01 of the WP agreement in section 6 of Revenue
Procedure 2017-21.
Agency option. A WP may apply the agency option to a
partnership or trust under which the partnership or trust
agrees to act as an agent of the WP and to apply the provisions of the WP agreement to its partners, beneficiaries,
or owners. A WP that applies the agency option must elect
to perform pool reporting for amounts subject to chapter 3
withholding that either are not withholdable payments or
are withholdable payments for which no chapter 4 withholding is required and that the WP distributes to, or includes in the distributive share of, a foreign direct partner.
A WP and a partnership or trust may only apply the
agency option if the partnership or trust meets the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is either a direct partner of the WP or an indirect

partner of the WP that is a direct partner, beneficiary,
or owner of a partnership or trust to which the WP also
applies the agency option.

• It is an FFI that is a certified deemed-compliant FFI

(other than a registered deemed-compliant Model 1
IGA FFI, as defined in the WP agreement), an
owner-documented FFI, an NFFE, or an exempt beneficial owner.

24

• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a WT,
WP, participating FFI, registered deemed-compliant
FFI, registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI
(as defined in the WP agreement), or QI acting as an
intermediary for a payment made by the WP to the
partnership or trust.

• The WP may not act as a withholding foreign partner-

ship with respect to any direct or indirect partner of the
partnership or trust that is a U.S. nonexempt recipient,
unless the U.S. nonexempt recipient is a partner of an
owner-documented FFI or passive NFFE to which the
WP applies the agency option and is included in the
WP’s U.S. payee pool.

• It agrees to comply with the compliance procedures

described in section 8.05 of the WP agreement by
providing the WP with the certification described in
section 8.03 of the WP agreement and providing the
WP with documentation or other information for review.

• It agrees to comply with the documentation requirements of a WP in the WP agreement.

For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.02 of the WP agreement in section 6 of Revenue
Procedure 2017-21.
WP acting for indirect partners. A WP may act as a
WP with respect to an indirect partner of the WP that is not
a U.S. nonexempt recipient. However, a WP may act as a
WP for an indirect partner that is a U.S. nonexempt recipient if the indirect partner is included in a pass-through
partner’s chapter 4 withholding rate pool of recalcitrant account holders or U.S. payees. A WP acting as a WP for an
indirect partner is not required to forward to its withholding
agent the documentation and the withholding statement of
the pass-through partner and indirect partner that the WP
would have otherwise been required to provide under the
requirements of a nonwithholding foreign partnership. See
Not acting as a WP, later. However, a WP must provide
the withholding agent with documentation and any other
information from any pass-through partner whose direct or
indirect partner, beneficiary, or owner is a U.S. nonexempt
recipient unless the recipient is included in the
pass-through partner’s chapter 4 withholding rate pool of
recalcitrant account holders or U.S. payees.
If a WP is making a payment that is a withholdable payment, the pass-through partner’s withholding statement
must meet the requirements of Regulations section
1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B). The pass-through partner’s withholding statement must include the account holders or interest holders of the pass-through partner in chapter 4
withholding rate pools (to the extent permitted), and, for
an amount subject to chapter 3 withholding that is not a
withholdable payment or is a withholdable payment for
which chapter 4 withholding is not required, valid documentation provided by the account holders or interest
holders of the pass-through partner that are not themselves QIs or flow-through entities.
For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.03 of the WP agreement in section 6 of Revenue
Procedure 2017-21.
Publication 515 (2026)

Not acting as a WP. A foreign partnership that is not acting as a WP is a nonwithholding foreign partnership. This
occurs if a WP is not acting in that capacity for some or all
of the amounts it receives from you.
You must treat payments made to a nonwithholding foreign partnership as made to the partners of the partnership. The partnership must provide you with a Form
W-8IMY (with Part VIII completed), a withholding statement identifying the amounts, the withholding certificates
or documentary evidence of the partners, and the information shown earlier under Withholding statement under
Nonqualified Intermediary (NQI).

Withholding Foreign Trusts (WTs)
If you are making payments to a WT for chapter 3 or 4 purposes, you do not have to withhold if the WT is acting in
that capacity. The WT must assume primary chapters 3
and 4 withholding responsibility for amounts that are distributed to, or included in the distributive share of, any direct beneficiary or owner and may assume primary chapters 3 and 4 withholding responsibility for certain of its
indirect beneficiaries or owners. The WT must withhold
the amount required to be withheld. A WT must provide
you with a Form W-8IMY that certifies that the WT is acting in that capacity and provides all other information and
certifications required by the form. The Form W-8IMY
must contain the WT-EIN and GIIN (if applicable).
A WT can be either an FFI or an NFFE. An FFI (other
than a retirement fund) that is a WT must be a participating FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, or an FFI
treated as a deemed-compliant FFI under an applicable
Model 1 IGA that is subject to similar due diligence and reporting requirements with respect to its U.S. accounts as
those applicable to a registered deemed-compliant FFI
under Regulations section 1.1471-5(f)(1) (including the requirement to register with the IRS) (defined in the WT
agreement as a “registered deemed-compliant Model 1
IGA FFI”). Thus, you must identify the chapter 4 status of
an FFI certifying its status as a WT as one of the chapter 4
statuses referenced in the preceding sentence on a Form
W-8IMY when a chapter 4 status is required for chapter 4
purposes.
Responsibilities of a WT. The WT must withhold on the
date it makes a distribution of a withholdable payment or
an amount subject to chapter 3 withholding to a direct foreign beneficiary or owner. If the beneficiary’s or owner’s
distributive share has not been distributed, the WT must
withhold on the beneficiary’s or owner’s distributive share
on the earlier of the date that the trust must mail or otherwise provide to the beneficiary or owner the statement required under section 6048(b) or the due date for furnishing
the statement (whether or not the WT is required to furnish
the statement).
The WT may determine the amount of withholding
based on a reasonable estimate of the beneficiary’s or
owner’s distributive share of income subject to withholding
for the year. The WT must correct the estimated withholding to reflect the actual distributive share on the earlier of
the dates mentioned in the preceding paragraph. If that
Publication 515 (2026)

date is after the earlier of the due date (including extensions) for filing the WT’s Form 1042-S or the date the WT
actually issues Form 1042-S for the calendar year, the WT
may withhold and report any adjustments required by correcting the information for the following calendar year.
Form 1042 filing. The WT must file Form 1042 even if
no amount was withheld. In addition to the information that
is required for the Form 1042, the WT must attach a statement showing the amounts of any overwithholding or underwithholding adjustments and an explanation of those
adjustments.
Form 1042-S reporting. The WT can elect to report
payments made to its foreign direct beneficiaries or owners on a pooled basis for chapter 3 purposes rather than
reporting payments made to each foreign direct beneficiary or owner in addition to reporting payments in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool to the extent the WT is permitted to do so based on its chapter 4 status. A WT can treat
as its direct beneficiaries or owners those indirect beneficiaries or owners of the WT for which it applies joint account treatment or the agency option (described later). A
WT must otherwise issue a Form 1042-S to each beneficiary or owner to the extent it is required to do so under
the WT agreement. You may issue a single Form 1042-S
for all payments you make to a WT other than payments
for which the entity does not act as a WT. You may, however, have Form 1099 requirements for certain indirect
beneficiaries or owners of a WT that are U.S. nonexempt
recipients.
Collective refund procedures. A WT may seek a refund of tax withheld under chapters 3 and 4 on behalf of
its beneficiaries or owners when the WT has not issued a
Form 1042-S to the beneficiaries or owners that received
the payment that was subject to overwithholding. The beneficiaries or owners, therefore, are not required to file
claims for refund with the IRS to obtain refunds, but rather
may obtain them from the WT. A WT may obtain a refund
of tax withheld under chapter 4 to the extent permitted under the WT agreement.
Reporting of U.S. beneficiaries or owners. If the
WT is a grantor trust with U.S. owners, the WT is required
to file Form 3520-A, Annual Information Return of Foreign
Trust With a U.S. Owner, and to provide statements to a
U.S. owner, as well as each U.S. beneficiary who is not an
owner and receives a distribution. If the WT is an FFI, it is
required to report each of its U.S. accounts (or U.S. reportable accounts if a reporting Model 1 FFI) on Form 8966
consistent with its FATCA requirements or the requirements of an IGA. If the WT is an NFFE, the WT must file
Form 8966 to report any beneficiary or owner that is an
NFFE (other than an excepted NFFE) with one or more
substantial U.S. owners (or, under an applicable IGA, controlling persons that are specified U.S. persons) if the
NFFE is the beneficial owner of a withholdable payment
received by the WT.
The WT must also file a Form 8966 to report withholdable payments made to a pass-through beneficiary or
owner for which the WT acts under the WT agreement
that provides information on an account holder (or interest
25

holder) that is an NFFE (other than an excepted NFFE)
with one or more substantial U.S. owners (or, under an applicable IGA, controlling persons that are specified U.S.
persons) and that is the beneficial owner of the withholdable payment received by the WT, unless the pass-through
beneficiary or owner certifies to the WT that it is reporting
on the account holder (or interest holder) pursuant to its
U.S. account reporting requirements. The preceding sentence applies with respect to a pass-through beneficiary
or owner to which the WT applies the agency option or
which has partners, beneficiaries, or owners that are indirect beneficiaries or owners of the WT. In addition, if the
WT is not a participating FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, or a registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA
FFI and is not required to report with respect to a U.S.
beneficiary of the WT on Form 3520-A, then the WT must
report with respect to such beneficiary on Form 8966, as
required in the WT agreement. A beneficiary for this purpose means a beneficiary that receives a distribution from
the WT during the year or that is required to include an
amount in gross income with respect to the WT under sections 652(a) or 662(a).
Joint account treatment. Under special procedures
provided in the WT agreement, a WT may apply joint account treatment to a partnership or trust that is a direct
beneficiary or owner of the WT. A WT that applies the joint
account option must elect to perform pool reporting for
amounts subject to chapter 3 withholding that either are
not withholdable payments or are withholdable payments
for which no chapter 4 withholding is required and that the
WT distributes to, or includes in the distributive share of, a
foreign direct beneficiary or owner. These rules only apply
to a partnership or trust that meets the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is a certified deemed-compliant FFI (other than a

registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI, as defined in the WT agreement), an owner-documented
FFI, an exempt beneficial owner, or an NFFE (other
than a WP or WT).

• It is a direct beneficiary or owner of the WT.
• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a
flow-through entity or intermediary.

• None of the partnership’s or trust’s partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a U.S. person or is subject to withholding or reporting under chapter 4.

• It agrees to make available upon request to the WT (or
the WT’s auditor) records that establish it has provided the WT with documentation for purposes of chapters 3 and 4 for all of its partners, beneficiaries, or
owners.

For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.01 of the WT agreement found in section 7 of
Revenue Procedure 2017-21.

26

Agency option. A WT may apply the agency option to a
partnership or trust under which the partnership or trust
agrees to act as an agent of the WT and to apply the provisions of the WT agreement to its partners, beneficiaries,
or owners. A WT that applies the agency option must elect
to perform pool reporting for amounts subject to chapter 3
withholding that either are not withholdable payments or
are withholdable payments for which no chapter 4 withholding is required and that the WT distributes to, or includes in the distributive share of, a foreign direct beneficiary or owner. A WT and a partnership or trust may only
apply the agency option if the partnership or trust meets
the following conditions.

• It is a nonwithholding foreign partnership or nonwithholding foreign trust that is either a simple or grantor
trust.

• It is either a direct beneficiary or owner of the WT or

an indirect beneficiary or owner of the WT that is a direct partner, beneficiary, or owner of a partnership or
trust to which the WT also applies the agency option.

• It is an FFI that is a certified deemed-compliant FFI

(other than a registered deemed-compliant Model 1
IGA FFI, as defined in the WT agreement), an
owner-documented FFI, an NFFE, or an exempt beneficial owner.

• None of its partners, beneficiaries, or owners is a WT,

WP, participating FFI, registered deemed-compliant
FFI, registered deemed-compliant Model 1 IGA FFI
(as defined in the WT agreement), or a QI acting as an
intermediary for a payment made by the WT to the
partnership or trust.

• The WT may not act as a withholding foreign trust with

respect to any direct or indirect beneficiary or owner of
the partnership or trust that is a U.S. nonexempt recipient, unless the U.S. nonexempt recipient is a beneficiary or owner of an owner-documented FFI or passive NFFE to which the WT applies the agency option
and is included in the WT’s U.S. payee pool.

• It agrees to comply with the compliance procedures

described in section 8.05 of the WT agreement by
providing the WT with the certification described in
section 8.03 of the WT agreement and providing the
WT with documentation or other information for review.

• It agrees to comply with the documentation requirements of a WT in the WT agreement.

For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.02 of the WT agreement in section 7 of Revenue
Procedure 2017-21.
WT acting for indirect beneficiaries or owners. A WT
may act as a WT with respect to an indirect beneficiary or
owner of the WT that is not a U.S. nonexempt recipient.
However, a WT may act as a WT for an indirect beneficiary or owner that is a U.S. nonexempt recipient if the indirect beneficiary or owner is included in a pass-through
beneficiary’s or owner’s chapter 4 withholding rate pool of
recalcitrant account holders or U.S. payees. A WT acting
Publication 515 (2026)

as a WT for an indirect beneficiary or owner is not required
to forward to its withholding agent the documentation and
the withholding statement of the pass-through beneficiary
or owner and indirect beneficiary or owner that the WT
would have otherwise been required to provide under the
requirements of a nonwithholding foreign trust. See Not
acting as a WT, later. However, a WT must provide the
withholding agent with documentation and any other information from any pass-through beneficiary or owner whose
direct or indirect partner, beneficiary, or owner is a U.S.
nonexempt recipient unless the recipient is included in the
pass-through beneficiary’s or owner’s chapter 4 withholding rate pool of recalcitrant account holders or U.S. payees. If a WT is making a payment that is a withholdable
payment, the pass-through beneficiary’s or owner’s withholding statement must meet the requirements of Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B). The pass-through beneficiary’s or owner’s withholding statement must include
the account holders or interest holders of the
pass-through beneficiary or owner in chapter 4 withholding rate pools (to the extent permitted), and, for an amount
subject to chapter 3 withholding that is not a withholdable
payment or is a withholdable payment for which chapter 4
withholding is not required, valid documentation provided
by the account holders or interest holders of the
pass-through beneficiary or owner that are not themselves
QIs or flow-through entities.
For more information on applying these rules, see section 9.03 of the WT agreement in section 7 of Revenue
Procedure 2017-21.
Not acting as a WT. A foreign trust that is not acting as
a WT is a nonwithholding foreign trust. This occurs if a WT
is not acting in that capacity for some or all of the amounts
it receives from you.
In most cases, you must treat payments made to a nonwithholding foreign trust as made to the beneficiaries of a
simple trust or the owners of a grantor trust. The trust must
provide you with a Form W-8IMY (with Part VIII completed), a withholding statement identifying the amounts, the
withholding certificates or documentary evidence of the
beneficiaries or owners, and the information shown earlier
under Withholding statement under Nonqualified Intermediary (NQI).

Standards of Knowledge for
Purposes of Chapter 3
You must withhold in accordance with the presumption
rules (discussed later) if you know or have reason to know
that a withholding certificate or documentary evidence
provided by a payee is unreliable or incorrect to establish
the payee’s status for chapter 3 purposes. If you rely on an
agent to obtain documentation, you are considered to
know, or have reason to know, the facts that are within the
knowledge of your agent for this purpose. If you receive
notification from the IRS that a payee’s claim of status for
chapter 3 purposes is incorrect or unreliable, you may not
rely upon the claim except to the extent indicated by the
IRS.
Publication 515 (2026)

Reason To Know
In general, you are considered to have reason to know
that a claim of U.S. status or of a reduced rate of withholding is incorrect if statements contained in the withholding
certificate or other documentation, or other relevant facts
of which you have knowledge, would cause a reasonably
prudent person in your position to question the claims
made.
For an obligation that is not a preexisting obligation
(that is, an obligation, including an account, held by an individual that is outstanding on June 30, 2014, or an obligation, including an account, held by an entity that is
opened, executed, or issued before January 1, 2015), you
have reason to know that an account holder’s chapter 3
claim is unreliable or incorrect if any information contained
in your account opening files or other account information
conflicts with the account holder’s claim. For an obligation
other than a preexisting obligation, you will not be considered to have reason to know that a person’s chapter 3
claim is unreliable or incorrect based on documentation
collected for anti-money laundering (AML) purposes until
30 days after the obligation is executed, or 30 days after
the account is opened for such person, whichever is applicable.
FIs, insurance companies, or brokers or dealers in securities have reason to know that documentation provided
by a direct account holder is unreliable or incorrect only in
the circumstances discussed next. If the documentation is
considered unreliable or incorrect, you must get new documentation to support the payee’s claimed status or may
rely on the original documentation if you receive the additional statements and/or documentation discussed later
and are a withholding agent described above with respect
to a direct account holder (defined in Regulations section
1.1441-7(b)(3)(i)). Such documentation is described in
Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(5)(i).
The circumstances, discussed next, also apply to other
withholding agents. However, these withholding agents
are not limited to these circumstances in determining if
they have reason to know that documentation is unreliable
or incorrect. These withholding agents cannot base their
determination on the receipt of additional statements or
documents. They need to get new documentation.

Withholding Certificates
You have reason to know that a Form W-8 provided by a
direct account holder that is a foreign person is unreliable
or incorrect if:

• The Form W-8 is incomplete with respect to any item

on the form that is relevant to the claims made by the
account holder;

• The Form W-8 contains any information that is inconsistent with the account holder’s claim;

• The Form W-8 lacks information necessary to establish entitlement to a reduced rate of withholding, if a
reduced rate is claimed; or

27

• You have information not contained on the form that is
inconsistent with the claims made on the form.

The rules below apply to withholding agents that are
FIs, insurance companies, or brokers or dealers in securities.
Limits on reason to know for preexisting obligations.
With respect to a preexisting obligation (that is, an obligation, including an account, held by an individual that is outstanding on June 30, 2014, or an obligation, including an
account, held by an entity that is opened, executed, or issued before January 1, 2015), if you have documented the
foreign status of an account holder for purposes of chapter 3 or 61 prior to July 1, 2014, you may continue to rely
on that documentation. In addition, if you make a payment
to a new entity account holder that you treat as a preexisting entity account under Notice 2014-33, 2014-21 I.R.B.
1006,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2014-21_IRB#NOT-2014-33, you may apply the standards
of knowledge in Regulations sections 1.1441-7(b)(5) and
(b)(8) that were applicable prior to the issuance of the
temporary regulations. See Notice 2014-59, 2014-44
I.R.B.
747,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2014-44_IRB#NOT-2014-59.
However, if you review documentation for an individual
account holder claiming foreign status that contains a U.S.
place of birth or if you are notified of a change in circumstances, the obligation will be treated as having a change
in circumstances as of the date you review the documentation or receive the notification, and you will then have
reason to know that the documentation is unreliable or incorrect. However, if you are reviewing documentation provided by an entity before January 1, 2015, you will not be
required to treat the additional U.S. indicia added to Regulations section 1.1441-7(b) by the temporary regulations
as a change in circumstances. See Notice 2014-59 for
more information.
Establishment of foreign status by certain withholding agents. You have reason to know that a Form
W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E is unreliable or incorrect to establish a direct account holder’s status as a foreign person if:
1. The Form W-8 has a current permanent residence address in the United States,
2. The Form W-8 has a current mailing address in the
United States,
3. You have a current residence or current mailing address as part of your account information that is an
address in the United States,
4. The account holder notifies you of a new residence or
mailing address in the United States,
5. You have classified the account holder as a U.S. person in your account information, or
6. You have a current telephone number for the account
holder in the United States and no telephone number
for the account holder outside the United States (only
to the extent described in Regulations section
1.1441-7(b)(5)).
28

You may, however, rely on a Form W-8 as establishing
the account holder’s foreign status if any of the following
apply.
1. You receive the Form W-8BEN from an individual and:
a. You possess or obtain documentary evidence
(that does not contain a U.S. address) that supports the claim of foreign status, and the individual
provides you with a reasonable explanation, in
writing, supporting the claim of foreign status;
b. If you make a payment outside the United States
with respect to an offshore obligation and you possess or obtain documentary evidence establishing
foreign status that does not contain a U.S. address;
c. With respect to an offshore obligation, if you classify the individual as a resident of the country
where the obligation is maintained and you are required to report payments to the individual annually to the tax authority of the country where the
obligation is maintained and that country has a tax
treaty or information exchange agreement in effect
with the United States; or
d. You have classified the account holder as a U.S
person in your account information and you possess or obtain documentary evidence evidencing
citizenship in a country other than the United
States.
2. You receive the Form W-8BEN-E from an entity that is
not a flow-through entity and:
a. You have in your possession or obtain documentation establishing foreign status that substantiates
that the entity is organized or created under foreign law; or
b. With respect to an offshore obligation, if you classify the entity as a resident of the country where
the obligation is maintained and you are required
to report payments to the entity annually to the tax
authority of the country where the obligation is
maintained and that country has a tax treaty or information exchange agreement in effect with the
United States.
3. The account holder (whether an individual or an entity) has provided standing instructions to make payments with respect to an offshore obligation to an address in, or an account maintained in, the United
States, unless the account holder provides a reasonable explanation, in writing, that supports its foreign
status or provides documentary evidence supporting
its foreign status.
4. If an individual account holder provides a Form
W-8BEN to establish the individual’s foreign status,
and you have, either as an accompanying documentation or as part of your account information, an unambiguous indication of a place of birth for the individual
in the United States, you may not rely on the Form
W-8BEN unless you possess or obtain documentary
Publication 515 (2026)

evidence evidencing citizenship in a country other
than the United States, and either (i) a copy of the individual’s Certificate of Loss of Nationality of the United States, or (ii) a reasonable written explanation for
the individual’s renunciation of U.S. citizenship (or, under an applicable IGA, the reason the individual does
not have a Certificate of Loss of Nationality of the United States despite relinquishing its U.S. citizenship),
or the reason the individual did not obtain U.S. citizenship at birth.
Claim of reduced rate of withholding under treaty by
certain withholding agents. You have reason to know
that a Form W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E provided by a direct
account holder to claim a reduced rate of withholding under a treaty is unreliable or incorrect for purposes of establishing the account holder’s residency in a treaty country if:

• The permanent residence address on the Form W-8 is
not in the treaty country or the beneficial owner notifies you of a new permanent residence address that is
not in the treaty country,

• The permanent residence address on the Form W-8 is
in the treaty country but the withholding certificate (or
your account information) contains a mailing address
that is not in the treaty country,

• You have a current mailing address in your account information outside the treaty country, or

• The account holder has standing instructions for you
to pay amounts from its account to an address or an
account not in the treaty country.

You may, however, rely on a Form W-8 as establishing
an account holder’s claim of a reduced rate of withholding
under a treaty if any of the following apply.
1. The permanent residence address is not in the treaty
country and:
a. The account holder provides a reasonable explanation for the permanent residence address outside
the treaty country, or
b. You possess or obtain documentary evidence described in Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(5)(i)
that establishes residency in a treaty country.
2. The mailing address is not in the treaty country and:

d. You obtain a written statement from the beneficial
owner that reasonably establishes its entitlement
to treaty benefits.
3. You have instructions to pay amounts outside the
treaty country and the account holder gives you a reasonable explanation, in writing, establishing residence
in the applicable treaty country or you possess or obtain documentary evidence described in Regulations
section 1.1471-3(c)(5)(i) establishing the account
holder’s residence in the treaty country.
Hold mail instruction. An address that is provided subject to an instruction to hold all mail to that address is not a
permanent residence address such that you may not rely
upon the Form W-8. However, the address can be used as
a permanent residence address if the person has provided you with the documentary evidence that is permitted
under Regulations section 1.1441-1(c)(38)(ii). If, after a
Form W-8 is provided, a person’s permanent residence
address is subsequently subject to a hold mail instruction,
this is a change in circumstances requiring the person to
provide the documentary evidence described in the preceding sentence in order to use the address as a permanent residence address.

Documentary Evidence
You have reason to know that documentary evidence provided by a direct account holder to support a claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect if:

• The documentary evidence does not reasonably es-

tablish the identity of the person presenting the documentary evidence;

• The documentary evidence contains information that

is inconsistent with the account holder’s claim of a reduced rate of withholding; or

• You have account information that is inconsistent with

the account holder’s claim of a reduced rate of withholding, or the documentary evidence lacks information necessary to establish a reduced rate of withholding. For example, the documentary evidence does not
contain, or is not supplemented by, statements regarding the derivation of the income or compliance with
LOB provisions in the case of an entity claiming treaty
benefits.

a. You possess or obtain documentary evidence described in Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(5)(i)
(that does not contain an address outside the
treaty country) supporting the beneficial owner’s
claim of residence in the treaty country,

Establishment of foreign status. You have reason to
know that documentary evidence is unreliable or incorrect
to establish a direct account holder’s status as a foreign
person if any of the following apply.

b. You possess or obtain documentation that establishes that the beneficial owner is an entity organized in a treaty country,

1, 2001, if you have actual knowledge that the account
holder is a U.S. person or if you have a mailing or residence address for the account holder in the United
States.

c. You know that the address outside the treaty country is a branch of the account holder that is a resident of the treaty country, or

Publication 515 (2026)

• For documentary evidence received prior to January

• For documentary evidence received after December

31, 2000, if you do not have a permanent residence
address for the account holder, if you have classified
the account holder as a U.S. person in your account
29

information, if you have a current mailing or current
permanent residence address (whether or not on the
documentation) for the account holder in the United
States, if the account holder notifies you of a new residence or mailing address in the United States, or if
you have a current telephone number for the account
holder in the United States and no telephone number
for the account holder outside the United States.

• If the account holder is an individual and you have, either on the documentary evidence or as part of your
account information, an unambiguous place of birth
for the individual in the United States.

• With respect to an offshore obligation, the account

holder has standing instructions directing you to pay
amounts from the account to an address or account
maintained in the United States.

You may, however, rely on documentary evidence as
establishing an account holder’s foreign status if any of the
following apply.
1. The mailing or residence address or sole telephone
number is in the United States, you receive the documentary evidence from an individual, and:
a. You possess or obtain additional documentary evidence (that does not contain a U.S. address) supporting the claim of foreign status and a reasonable explanation, in writing, supporting the account
holder’s foreign status;
b. You obtain a Form W-8 that contains a permanent
residence address and mailing address outside
the United States (or, if a mailing address is inside
the United States, the account holder provides a
reasonable explanation, in writing, supporting the
account holder’s foreign status); or
c. For a payment made with respect to an offshore
obligation, if you classify the individual as a resident of the country where the obligation is maintained, you are required to report a payment made
to the individual annually on a tax information
statement filed with that country’s tax authority as
part of the resident reporting requirements, and
that country has a tax information exchange
agreement or income tax treaty in effect with the
United States.
2. The mailing or residence address or sole telephone
number is in the United States, you receive the documentary evidence from an entity (other than a
flow-through entity), and:
a. You possess or obtain documentation to substantiate that the entity is actually organized or created
under the laws of a foreign country;
b. You obtain a valid Form W-8 that contains a permanent residence address and mailing address
outside the United States (or, if a mailing address
is inside the United States, the account holder provides a reasonable explanation, in writing, supporting the account holder’s foreign status); or
30

c. For a payment made with respect to an offshore
obligation, if you classify the entity as a resident of
the country where the obligation is maintained and
you are required to report a payment made to the
entity annually on a tax information statement filed
with that country’s tax authority as part of the resident reporting requirements, and that country has
a tax information exchange agreement or income
tax treaty in effect with the United States.
3. You have instructions to pay amounts to an address or
an account in the United States and the account
holder provides you with a reasonable explanation, in
writing, that supports the account holder’s foreign status or a valid beneficial owner withholding certificate
claiming foreign status.
4. You have an unambiguous place of birth in the United
States for an individual account holder and you possess or obtain documentary evidence demonstrating
the individual’s citizenship in a country other than the
United States and a copy of the individual’s Certificate
of Loss of Nationality of the United States. Alternatively, you may treat such an individual as a foreign
person if you obtain a valid beneficial owner withholding certificate that establishes the individual’s foreign
status, documentary evidence evidencing citizenship
in a country other than the United States, and a reasonable explanation, in writing, of the individual’s renunciation of U.S. citizenship (or, under an applicable
IGA, the reason the individual does not have a Certificate of Loss of Nationality of the United States despite relinquishing U.S. citizenship) or the reason the
individual did not obtain U.S. citizenship at birth.
Claim of reduced rate of withholding under treaty.
You have reason to know that documentary evidence provided by a direct account holder to claim a reduced rate of
withholding under a treaty is unreliable or incorrect for purposes of establishing the account holder’s residency in a
treaty country if:

• You have a mailing or residence address for the ac-

count holder that is outside the applicable treaty country,

• You have no permanent residence for the account
holder, or

• The account holder has standing instructions for you

to pay amounts from its account to an address or account not in the treaty country.

You may, however, rely on documentary evidence as
establishing an account holder’s claim of a reduced rate of
withholding under a treaty if any of the following apply.
1. The mailing or residence address is outside the treaty
country and:
a. You possess or obtain additional documentary evidence supporting the account holder’s claim of
residence in the treaty country (and the documentary evidence does not contain an address outside
the treaty country, a P.O. box, an in-care-of address, or the address of an FI),
Publication 515 (2026)

b. You possess or obtain documentary evidence that
establishes that the account holder is an entity organized in a treaty country, or

instruct the NQI, flow-through entity, or U.S. branch to confirm that it does not know or have reason to know that the
withholding certificate is unreliable or inaccurate.

c. You obtain a valid Form W-8 that contains a permanent residence address and a mailing address
in the applicable treaty country.

Documentary evidence. If you receive documentary evidence for a payee in association with a Form W-8IMY, you
must review the documentary evidence provided by the
NQI, flow-through entity, or U.S. branch to determine that
there is no obvious indication that the payee is a U.S. person subject to Form 1099 reporting or that the documentary evidence does not establish the identity of the person
who provided the documentation (for example, the documentary evidence does not appear to be an identification
document).

2. You have instructions to pay amounts outside the
treaty country and the account holder gives you a reasonable explanation, in writing, establishing residence
in the applicable treaty country or a valid beneficial
owner withholding certificate that contains a permanent residence address and a mailing address in the
applicable treaty country.

Indirect Account Holders’ Chapter 3 Status
A withholding agent that receives documentation from a
payee through an NQI, a flow-through entity, a U.S. branch
of a foreign bank subject to regulatory supervision by the
Federal Reserve Board or a U.S. branch of a foreign insurance company required to file an annual statement on a
form approved by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners with the Insurance Department of any
U.S. state, a U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia, or a
territory financial institution (other than a U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person) has reason to know that the documentary evidence is unreliable or incorrect for purposes of
a claim of foreign status or a treaty claim if a reasonably
prudent person in the withholding agent’s position would
question the claims made. This standard requires, but is
not limited to, compliance with the following rules.
Withholding statement. You must review the withholding statement provided with Form W-8IMY and may not
rely on information in the statement to the extent the information does not support the claims made for a payee. You
may not treat a payee as a foreign person if a U.S. address is provided for the payee. You may not treat a person as a resident of a country with which the United
States has an income tax treaty if the address for the person is outside the treaty country.
You may, however, treat a payee as a foreign person
and may treat a foreign person as a resident of a treaty
country if the withholding statement is accompanied by a
valid withholding certificate and documentary evidence or
a reasonable explanation is provided, by the NQI,
flow-through entity, or U.S. branch supporting the payee’s
foreign status or residency in a treaty country.
Withholding certificate. If you receive a Form W-8 for a
payee in association with a Form W-8IMY, you must review each Form W-8 and verify that the information is consistent with the information on the withholding statement.
If there is a discrepancy, you may rely on the Form W-8, if
valid, and instruct the NQI, flow-through entity, or U.S.
branch to correct the withholding statement, or, alternatively, you may apply the presumption rules, discussed
later in Presumption Rules, to the payee.
If you choose to rely on the withholding certificate, you
must, in addition to instructing the NQI, flow-through entity,
or U.S. branch to correct the withholding statement,
Publication 515 (2026)

Standards of Knowledge for
Purposes of Chapter 4
If you make a withholdable payment, you must withhold in
accordance with the presumption rules (discussed later) if
you know or have reason to know that a withholding certificate or documentary evidence provided by the payee is
unreliable or incorrect to establish a payee’s chapter 4 status. If you rely on an agent to obtain documentation, you
are considered to know, or have reason to know, the facts
that are within the knowledge of your agent for this purpose.

Notification by the IRS
If you receive notification from the IRS that a claim of status as a U.S. person, a participating FFI, a deemed-compliant FFI, or other entity entitled to a reduced rate of withholding under chapter 4 is incorrect, you are considered to
have knowledge that such a claim is incorrect beginning
30 days after you receive the notice.

GIIN Verification
If you have received a Form W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY
from an entity payee that is claiming certain chapter 4 statuses, you must obtain and verify the entity’s GIIN against
the published IRS FFI list. The IRS FFI list can be found at
IRS.gov/FATCA-FFIList. You must obtain and verify
against the published IRS FFI list a GIIN for the following
chapter 4 statuses.

• Participating FFIs (including reporting Model 2 FFIs).
• Registered deemed-compliant FFIs (including reporting Model 1 FFIs).

• Sponsored FFIs.
• Direct reporting NFFEs.
• Sponsored direct reporting NFFEs.
• Certain nonreporting IGA FFIs (as described below).
If you receive a Form W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY from
a nonreporting IGA FFI that is a trustee-documented trust
with a foreign trustee, you must obtain the GIIN of a foreign trustee, but you are not required to verify the GIIN.
The GIIN that the trustee must provide is the GIIN that it
31

received when it registered as a participating FFI or reporting Model 1 FFI, not the GIIN that it received when it
registered as a trustee of a trustee-documented trust.
If you receive a Form W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY from
a nonreporting IGA FFI that checks Model 2 IGA in Part XII
of Form W-8BEN-E or Part XIX of Form W-8IMY (as applicable) and identifies a category of entity that is a registered deemed-compliant FFI under Annex II of an applicable Model 2 IGA, you must obtain and verify the GIIN of
the nonreporting IGA FFI. Additionally, if you receive a
Form W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY from a nonreporting
IGA FFI that provides a citation to a section of the regulations for its registered deemed-compliant status in Part XII
of Form W-8BEN-E or Part XIX of Form W-8IMY (as applicable), you must obtain and verify the GIIN of the nonreporting IGA FFI. You will have reason to know that such
payee is not such an FI if the payee’s name (including a
name reasonably similar to the name the withholding
agent has on file for the payee) and GIIN do not appear on
the most recently published IRS FFI list within 90 days of
the date that the claim is made.
If you receive a Form W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY from
an entity payee and the form contains “Applied for” in the
box for the GIIN, the payee must provide you its GIIN
within 90 days of providing the form. A Form W-8BEN-E or
Form W-8IMY from such payee that does not include a
GIIN, or includes a GIIN that does not appear on the published IRS FFI list, will be invalid for chapter 4 purposes 90
days after the date the form is provided.
The GIIN that you must confirm is the GIIN assigned to
the FFI identifying its country of residence for tax purposes (or place of organization if the FFI has no country of
residence), except as otherwise provided.
Branches and disregarded entities. If you make a withholdable payment to a branch of, or an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from, a participating FFI or
registered deemed-compliant FFI located outside of the
FFI’s country of residence or organization, the GIIN you
must verify is the GIIN of the branch or disregarded entity
receiving the payment. You must identify a GIIN associated with a disregarded entity to the extent provided in the
Instructions for Form W-8BEN-E or the Instructions for
Form W-8IMY.
You will have reason to know that a withholdable payment is made to a branch (including a disregarded entity)
of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI
that is not itself a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI when you are directed to make the
payment to an address in a jurisdiction other than that of
the participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI
(or branch of, or disregarded entity wholly owned by, such
FFI) that is identified as the FFI (or branch of, or disregarded entity wholly owned by, such FFI) that is supposed to
receive the payment and for which the FFI’s GIIN is not
confirmed, as described in the preceding paragraphs.
The preceding sentence does not apply to an FFI that
is an investment entity. If an FFI (other than an investment
entity) directs you to make the payment to an account held
32

by the FFI and maintained by another FI, the FFI must provide to you a statement, in writing, that the FFI is not directing the payment to any branch of such FFI that is not a
participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI.
Sponsored, closely held investment vehicles. If you
make a withholdable payment to a certified deemed-compliant FFI that is a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle, you must obtain a GIIN for the sponsoring entity and
verify it against the published IRS FFI list.

Reason To Know
In general, you have reason to know that a claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if your knowledge of
relevant facts or statements contained in the withholding
certificate or other documentation is such that a reasonably prudent person would question the claim being made.
For an obligation other than a preexisting obligation (that
is, an obligation other than an obligation, including an account, held by an individual that is outstanding on June
30, 2014, or an obligation, including an account, held by
an entity that is opened, executed, or issued before January 1, 2015), you have reason to know that a claim of
chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if any information
contained in the account opening files or other customer
account files, including documentation collected for AML
due diligence purposes, conflicts with the chapter 4 status
being claimed. You will not have reason to know that a
claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect based
on documentation collected for AML due diligence purposes until the date that is 30 days after the obligation is created.
If you have classified an entity as engaged in a particular type of business based on your records, such as
through the use of a standardized industry coding system,
you have reason to know that the chapter 4 status claimed
by the entity is unreliable or incorrect only if the entity’s
claim conflicts with the withholding agent’s classification
of the entity’s business type.

Withholding Certificates
In general, you have reason to know that a withholding
certificate from a person is unreliable or incorrect with respect to a claim of chapter 4 status if:

• The withholding certificate is incomplete with respect
to any item on the certificate that is relevant to the
claim made by the person;

• The withholding certificate contains any information
that is inconsistent with the person’s claim;

• You have other account information that is inconsistent
with the person’s claim;

• The withholding certificate lacks information necessary to establish entitlement to an exemption from
withholding for chapter 4 purposes; or

• With respect to an alternative certification under an

applicable IGA included with a withholding certificate,
Publication 515 (2026)

if you know or have reason to know the certification is
incorrect.
If you obtain a withholding certificate associated with a
withholdable payment to a participating FFI, a registered
deemed-compliant FFI, a sponsoring entity, or a sponsored FFI, you do not need to apply the standards of
knowledge described earlier with respect to an account
holder’s claim of foreign status if you have confirmed the
FFI’s GIIN on the current published IRS FFI list within 90
days of receipt of the withholding certificate.
Caution: A withholding certificate used for chapter 4 purposes must also include the information required for chapter 3 purposes (that is, the entity’s tax classification) with
regard to a payment that is a reportable amount under
Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(3)(vi).

Documentary Evidence
You have reason to know that documentary evidence provided by a person is unreliable or incorrect with respect to
a claim of chapter 4 status if:

• The documentary evidence does not reasonably es-

tablish the identity of the person presenting the documentary evidence,

• The documentary evidence contains information that
is inconsistent with the person’s claim as to its chapter 4 status,

• You have other account information that is inconsistent
with the person’s chapter 4 status, or

• The documentary evidence lacks information necessary to establish the person’s chapter 4 status.

For standards of knowledge applicable to specific types
of documentary evidence, see Regulations section
1.1471-3.

Payee Documentation From Intermediaries
or Flow-Through Entities
In general. If you receive documentation for a payee of a
withholdable payment through one or more intermediaries
or flow-through entities, you must, in addition to determining each such entity’s chapter 4 status when required for
chapter 4 purposes, review all documentation obtained
with respect to the payee. Under certain circumstances,
you may rely on a withholding certificate with an electronic
signature provided by an account holder that is an NQI,
when you are permitted to do so under Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(4)(i)(B). When withholding under chapter 4 is not applied based on the chapter 4 status of an intermediary or flow-through entity, you are not required to
obtain documentation for a payee through an intermediary
or flow-through entity that is a QI, WP, or WT, or a payee
that is included in a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S.
payees.
Withholding statement. You must review the withholding statement provided and may not rely on
information in the statement to the extent the information
Publication 515 (2026)

does not support the claims made regarding the chapter 4
status of the payee. You may not treat a person as a foreign person if a U.S. address is provided, unless the withholding statement is accompanied by a valid withholding
certificate and documentary evidence establishing foreign
status.
Withholding certificate. You must review each withholding certificate, written statement (as permitted for
chapter 4 purposes with respect to certain payments to
entities), or documentary evidence, and must verify that
the information is consistent with the information on the
withholding statement. If there is a discrepancy, you may
rely on the documentation provided such documentation
is valid and the intermediary or flow-through entity does
not indicate that the documentation is unreliable or incorrect, or, alternatively, you may apply the presumption
rules. If you choose to rely on the documentation, you
must instruct the intermediary or flow-through entity to correct the withholding statement and confirm that the intermediary or flow-through entity does not know or have reason to know that the documentation is unreliable or
incorrect. See Regulations section 1.1471-3(d) for when a
written statement is permitted for chapter 4 purposes.
Documentation from participating FFIs and registered deemed-compliant FFIs. If you receive documentation for a payee of a withholdable payment through
a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI
that is an intermediary or flow-through entity receiving the
payment, you may rely on the chapter 4 status provided in
the withholding statement, including a chapter 4 status determined under the requirements of (and documentation
or information that is publicly available that determines the
chapter 4 status of the payee permitted under) an applicable IGA, provided that you have the information necessary
to report on Form 1042-S, unless you have information
that conflicts with the chapter 4 status provided. If underlying documentation is provided for the payee and information in the documentation or in your records conflicts with
the chapter 4 status claimed, you have reason to know
that the chapter 4 status claimed is unreliable or incorrect.
However, you are not required to verify the information
contained in the documentation that is not factually incorrect, and you are generally not required to obtain supporting documentation for the payee. You may determine the
recipient code of a payee for chapter 4 purposes (for filing
Form 1042-S) that is not identified on a withholding statement when you are able to do so based on other information included on or with the withholding statement or in
your records with respect to the payee.
Preexisting obligation of entities. If you make a
withholdable payment with respect to a preexisting obligation to an entity, the scope of review is limited with respect
to the time in which you must determine the entity’s chapter 4 status. For more information, see Regulations section
1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii) or, if you are a reporting Model 1 FFI or
a reporting Model 2 FFI, the requirements of the applicable IGA.

33

Presumption Rules
If you cannot reliably associate a payment with valid documentation, you must apply certain presumption rules or
you may be liable for tax, interest, and penalties. If you
comply with the presumption rules, you are not liable for
tax, interest, and penalties even if the rate of withholding
that should have been applied based on the payee’s actual status is different from that presumed.
The presumption rules apply to determine the status of
the person you pay as a U.S. or foreign person and other
relevant characteristics, such as whether the payee is a
beneficial owner or intermediary, and whether the payee is
an individual, corporation, partnership, or trust. In the case
of a withholdable payment you make to an entity, you must
apply the presumption rules for chapter 4 purposes to
treat the entity as a nonparticipating FFI when you cannot
reliably associate the payment with documentation permitted for chapter 4 purposes. You are not permitted to apply
a reduced rate of chapter 3 withholding based on a
payee’s presumed status if documentation is required to
establish a reduced rate of withholding. For example, if the
payee of interest is presumed to be a foreign person, you
may not apply the portfolio interest exception or a reduced
rate of withholding under a tax treaty since both exceptions require documentation.

Chart A. Presumption Rules in the Absence
of Documentation
For the presumption rules
related to:

See Regulations section:

Payee’s status

1.1441-1(b)(3), 1.6049-5(d),
1.1471-3(f) (chapter 4 payees)

Effectively connected income

1.1441-4(a)(2)

Partnership and its partners

1.1441-5(d), 1.1446-1(c)(3)

Estate or trust and its
beneficiaries or owner

1.1441-5(e)(6)

Foreign tax-exempt
organizations (including
private foundations)

1.1441-9(b)(3)

Presumption Rules for Chapter 4

If you rely on your actual knowledge about a payee’s
status and withhold an amount less than that required under the presumption rules or do not report a payment that
is subject to reporting under the presumption rules, you
may be liable for tax, interest, and penalties. You should,
however, rely on your actual knowledge if doing so results
in withholding an amount greater than would apply under
the presumption rules or in reporting an amount that would
not be subject to reporting under the presumption rules.

If you determine that you are making a withholdable payment to an entity and cannot reliably associate the payment with a valid Form W-8 or other documentation that
you are permitted to rely upon and that is sufficient to determine the chapter 4 status of the entity, you are required
to treat the entity payee as a nonparticipating FFI such
that withholding applies. For purposes of determining
whether the payment is made to an individual or an entity,
or to a U.S. person or a foreign person, if you cannot reliably associate a payment with a valid Form W-8 or other
documentation that you are permitted to rely upon and
from which you are able to determine the payee’s status
as an individual or entity, or U.S. or foreign status, you
must apply the presumption rules of Regulations section
1.1441-1(b)(3)(ii) to determine the payee’s status as an individual or entity and Regulations section 1.1441-1(b)(3)
(iii) to determine the payee’s U.S. or foreign status.

In the case of a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI that cannot report with respect to
an individual account holder, the FFI must classify the account holder under the requirements (as applicable) of the
FFI agreement, Regulations section 1.1471-5(f), or an applicable IGA. Whether withholding applies to payments
made to such account holders classified as recalcitrant
account holders (including payments to intermediaries or
flow-through entities allocating payments to such account
holders on an applicable withholding statement) differs
under these requirements.

If you are making a withholdable payment to joint payees and cannot reliably associate the payment with valid
documentation from each payee and each of the payees
appears to be an individual, the payment is presumed
made to an unidentified U.S. person. If any of the joint
payees does not appear, by its name or other information
in its account file, to be an individual, then the entire payment is treated as made to a nonparticipating FFI. However, if you receive from one of the joint payees a Form
W-9, the payment shall be treated as made to that payee.

The presumption rules, in the absence of documentation, for the subject matter are discussed in the regulations section indicated in Chart A.

Income Subject to Withholding
This section explains how to determine if a payment is
subject to chapter 3 withholding or is a withholdable payment.

Amounts Subject to Chapter 3
Withholding
A payment is subject to chapter 3 withholding if it is from
sources within the United States, and it is fixed or
34

Publication 515 (2026)

determinable annual or periodical (FDAP) income. Generally, FDAP income excludes most gains but includes certain gains from the disposal of timber, coal, and iron ore,
or from the sale or exchange of patents, copyrights, and
similar intangible property.

Amounts not subject to withholding under chapter 4.
The following amounts are not subject to withholding under chapter 4.

In addition, a payment is subject to chapter 3 withholding if withholding is specifically required, even though it
may not constitute U.S. source income or FDAP income.
For example, corporate distributions may be subject to
chapter 3 withholding even though a part of the distribution may be a return of capital or capital gain that is not
FDAP income.

• Payments made under a grandfathered obligation (for

Amounts not subject to chapter 3 withholding. The
following amounts are not subject to chapter 3 withholding.

• Portfolio interest paid on obligations that meet certain
requirements. See Interest, later.

• Bank deposit interest that is not effectively connected
with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. See Interest, later.

• Original issue discount on certain short-term obligations. See Original issue discount, later.

• Nonbusiness gambling income of a nonresident alien
playing blackjack, baccarat, craps, roulette, or big-6
wheel in the United States. See Gambling winnings,
later.

• Amounts paid as part of the purchase price of an obligation sold between interest payment dates. See Interest, later.

• Original issue discount paid on the sale of an obligation other than a redemption. See Original issue discount, later.

• Insurance premiums paid on a contract issued by a

foreign insurer subject to the excise tax under section
4371.

• U.S. source transportation income subject to a 4% tax
on gross income.

Amounts Subject to Chapter 4
Withholding
U.S. source FDAP income for purposes of chapter 4 is
similar to U.S. source FDAP income for purposes of chapter 3, subject to certain modifications such as the exclusion of certain types of non-financial payments and the inclusion (as U.S. source interest) of deposit interest paid by
a foreign branch of a U.S. corporation or partnership. Also,
see Fixed or Determinable Annual or Periodical Income
(FDAP), later.
A withholding agent must withhold on a payment of
U.S. source FDAP income that is a withholdable payment
to which an exception does not apply under chapter 4.

Publication 515 (2026)

• Interest or original issue discount from a short-term
obligation.

example, obligations outstanding on July 1, 2014).

Source of Income
In most cases, income is from U.S. sources if it is paid by
domestic corporations, U.S. citizens or resident aliens, or
entities formed under the laws of the United States or a
state. Income is also from U.S. sources if the property that
produces the income is located in the United States, the
services for which the income is paid were performed in
the United States or the income is a dividend equivalent.
A payment is treated as being from sources within the United States if the source of the payment cannot be determined at the time of payment, such as fees for personal
services paid before the services have been performed.
Other source rules are summarized in Chart B and explained in detail in the separate discussions under Withholding on Specific Income, later.
In most cases, interest on an obligation of a foreign corporation or foreign partnership is foreign-source income. If
the entity is engaged in a trade or business in the United
States during its tax year, interest paid by such entity is
treated as from U.S. sources only if the interest is paid by
a U.S. trade or business conducted by the entity or is allocable to income that is treated as effectively connected
with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. This applies
to a foreign partnership only if it is predominantly engaged
in the active conduct of a trade or business outside the
United States.
Guarantee income. Certain amounts paid, directly or indirectly, for the provision of a guarantee of indebtedness
issued after September 27, 2010, are from U.S. sources.
The amounts must be paid by one of the following.
1. A noncorporate U.S. resident or a U.S. corporation for
the provision of a guarantee of the resident or corporation.
2. Any foreign person for the provision of a guarantee if
the payment of income is effectively connected, or
treated as effectively connected, with the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business.
Personal service income (for purposes of chapter 3
withholding). If the income is for personal services performed in the United States, it is from U.S. sources. The
place where the services are performed determines the
source of the income, regardless of where the contract
was made, the place of payment, or the residence of the
payer.
However, under certain circumstances, payment for
personal services performed in the United States is not
considered income from sources within the United States.

35

For information on this exception, see Pay for Personal
Services Performed, later.
If the income is for personal services performed partly
in the United States and partly outside the United States,
you must make an accurate allocation of income for services performed in the United States based on the facts
and circumstances. In most cases, you make this allocation on a time basis. That is, U.S. source income is the
amount that results from multiplying the total amount of
pay by the following fraction.
Number of days services are performed in the United States
Total number of days of service for which compensation is paid

Multiyear compensation. Generally, the source of multiyear compensation is determined on a time basis over the
period to which the compensation is attributable. Multiyear
compensation is compensation that is included in the taxable income of a recipient in 1 tax year but that is attributable to a period that includes 2 or more tax years. The determination of the period to which the compensation is
attributable, for purposes of determining its source, is
based on the facts and circumstances of each case. For
example, an amount of compensation that specifically relates to a period of time that includes several calendar
years is attributable to the entire multiyear period. Where
determining the source of multiyear compensation on a
time basis is appropriate, the amount of compensation
treated as from U.S. sources is figured by multiplying the
total multiyear compensation by a fraction. The numerator
of the fraction is the number of days (or unit of time less
than a day, if appropriate) that labor or personal services
were performed in the United States in connection with
the project. The denominator of the fraction is the total
number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) that labor or personal services were performed in
connection with the project.
Employees. If the services are performed partly in the
United States and partly outside the United States by an
employee, the allocation of pay, other than certain fringe
benefits, is determined on a time basis. The following
fringe benefits are sourced on a geographical basis as
shown in the following list.

• Housing—employee’s main job location.
• Education—employee’s main job location.
• Local transportation—employee’s main job location.
• Tax reimbursement—jurisdiction imposing tax.
• Hazardous or hardship duty pay—location of pay
zone.

• Moving expense reimbursement—employee’s new
main job location.

For information on what is included in these benefits,
see Regulations section 1.861-4(b)(2)(ii)(D).
An employee’s main job location (principal place of
work) is usually the place where the employee spends
most of their working time. If there is no one place where
most of the work time is spent, the main job location is the
36

place where the work is centered, such as where the employee reports for work or is otherwise required to base
their work.
An employee can use an alternative basis based on
facts and circumstances, rather than the time or geographical basis. The employee, not the employer, must
demonstrate that the alternative basis more properly determines the source of the pay or fringe benefits.
Territorial limits. Wages received for services rendered inside the territorial limits of the United States and
wages of an alien seaman earned on a voyage along the
coast of the United States are regarded as from sources in
the United States. Wages or salaries for personal services
performed in a mine or on an oil or gas well located or being developed on the continental shelf of the United States
are treated as from sources in the United States.
Income from the performance of services directly related to the use of a vessel or aircraft is treated as derived
entirely from sources in the United States if the use begins
and ends in the United States. This income is subject to
withholding if it is not effectively connected with a U.S.
trade or business. If the use either begins or ends in the
United States, see Transportation income, later.
Crew members. Income from the performance of
services by a nonresident alien in connection with the individual’s temporary presence in the United States as a regular member of the crew of a foreign vessel engaged in
transportation between the United States and a foreign
country or a U.S. territory is not income from U.S. sources.
Multilevel marketing. Certain companies sell products through a multilevel marketing arrangement, such
that an upper-tier distributor, who has sponsored a
lower-tier distributor, is entitled to a payment from the
company based on certain activities of that lower-tier distributor. Generally, depending on the facts, payments from
such multilevel marketing companies to independent
(nonemployee) distributors (upper-tier distributors) that
are based on the sales or purchases of persons whom
they have sponsored (lower-tier distributors) constitute income for the performance of personal services in recruiting, training, and supporting the lower-tier distributors.
The source of such income is generally based on where
the services of the upper-tier distributor are performed,
and may, depending on the facts, be considered multiyear
compensation, with the source of income determined over
the period to which such compensation is attributable.
Scholarships, fellowships, and grants. Scholarships,
fellowships, and grants are sourced according to the residence of the payer. Those made by entities created or domiciled in the United States are generally treated as income from sources within the United States. However, see
Activities outside the United States next. Those made by
entities created or domiciled in a foreign country are treated as income from foreign sources.
Activities outside the United States. A scholarship,
fellowship, grant, targeted grant, or an achievement award
received by a nonresident alien for activities conducted

Publication 515 (2026)

outside the United States is treated as foreign source income.
Pension payments. The source of pension payments is
determined by the part of the distribution that constitutes
the compensation element (employer contributions) and
the part that constitutes the earnings element (the investment income).
The compensation element is sourced the same as
compensation from the performance of personal services.
The part attributable to services performed in the United
States is U.S. source income, and the part attributable to
services performed outside the United States is foreign
source income.
Employer contributions to a defined benefit plan covering more than one individual are not made for the benefit
of a specific participant, but are made based on the total
liabilities to all participants. All funds held under the plan
are available to provide benefits to any participant. If the
payment is from such a plan, you can use the method in
Revenue Procedure 2004-37, 2004-26 I.R.B. 1099, available at IRS.gov/irb/2004-26_IRB#RP-2004-37, to allocate
the payment to sources within and without the United
States.
The earnings part of a pension payment is U.S. source
income if the trust is a U.S. trust.

Chart B. Summary of Source Rules for FDAP
Income

Amounts Subject to Chapter 3 Withholding, earlier);
and

• Items of income excluded from gross income without

regard to U.S. or foreign status of the owner of the income, such as tax-exempt municipal bond interest
and qualified scholarship income.

The following items are examples of FDAP income.

• Compensation for personal services paid to an individual or a sole proprietorship.

• Dividends and dividend equivalent payments.
• Interest.
• Original issue discount.
• Real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC) excess inclusion income.

• Pensions and annuities.
• Alimony (no longer income if the divorce or separation
agreement is executed after December 31, 2018, or if
executed before January 1, 2019, but modified after
December 31, 2018, the modification must state that
section 11051 of P.L. 115-97 (TCJA) applies to the
modification).

• Real property income, such as rents, other than gains
from the sale of real property.

• Royalties.
• Taxable scholarships and fellowship grants.
• Other taxable grants, prizes, and awards.
• A sales commission paid or credited monthly.
• A commission paid for a single transaction.
• The distributable net income of an estate or trust that

IF you have...

THEN the source of that income
is generally determined by...

pay for personal services

where the services are performed.

dividends

the type of corporation (U.S. or
foreign).

interest

the residence of the payer.

rents

where the property is located.

royalties—patents, copyrights,
etc.

where the property is used.

royalties—natural resources

where the property is located.

pensions—distributions
attributable to contributions

where the services were performed.

pensions—investment earnings
on contributions

the location of pension trust.

scholarships and fellowship
grants

in most cases, the residence of the
payer.

• Publication rights.
• Prizes awarded to nonresident alien artists for pictures

guarantee of indebtedness

the residence of the debtor or
whether the payment is effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business.

• Purses paid to nonresident alien boxers for prize fights

Fixed or Determinable Annual or
Periodical (FDAP) Income
FDAP income is all income except:

• Gains from the sale of property (not including original

issue discount and certain gains that are referred to in

Publication 515 (2026)

is FDAP income and must be distributed currently, or
has been paid or credited during the tax year.

• FDAP income distributed by a partnership that, or

such an amount that, although not actually distributed,
is includible in the gross income of a foreign partner.

• Taxes, mortgage interest, or insurance premiums paid
to, or for the account of, a nonresident alien landlord
by a tenant under the terms of a lease.

exhibited in the United States.
in the United States.

• Prizes awarded to nonresident alien professional golfers in golfing tournaments in the United States.

Payments for the following purposes are examples of
payments that are not withholdable payments.

• Services (including wages and other forms of employee compensation (such as stock options)).

• The use of property.
• Office and equipment leases.
37

• Software licenses.
• Transportation.
• Freight.
• Gambling winnings.
• Awards, prizes, and scholarships.
• Interest on outstanding accounts payable arising from
the acquisition of goods or services.

Periodic or lump-sum payments. Income can be FDAP
income whether it is paid in a series of repeated payments
or in a single lump sum. For example, $5,000 in royalty income would be FDAP income whether paid in 10 payments of $500 each or in one payment of $5,000.
Insurance proceeds. Income derived by an insured
nonresident alien from U.S. sources upon the surrender
of, or at the maturity of, a life insurance policy, is FDAP income and is subject to chapter 3 withholding and is a withholdable payment. This includes income derived under a
life insurance contract issued by a foreign branch of a U.S.
life insurance company. The proceeds are income to the
extent they exceed the cost of the policy.
However, certain payments received under a life insurance contract on the life of a terminally or chronically ill individual before death (accelerated death benefits) may not
be subject to tax. This also applies to certain payments received for the sale or assignment of any part of the death
benefit under contract to a viatical settlement provider. For
more information, go to IRS.gov/Pub525.
Racing purses (for purposes of chapter 3 withholding). Racing purses are FDAP income and racetrack operators must withhold 30% on any purse paid to a nonresident alien racehorse owner in the absence of definite
information contained in a statement filed together with a
Form W-8 that the owner has not raced, or does not intend
to enter, a horse in another race in the United States during the tax year. If available information indicates that the
racehorse owner has raced a horse in another race in the
United States during the tax year, then the statement and
Form W-8 filed for that year are ineffective. The owner may
be exempt from withholding of tax at 30% on the purses if
the owner gives you Form W-8ECI, which provides that
the income is effectively connected with the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business and that the income is includible in
the owner’s gross income.
Covenant not to compete. Payment received for a
promise not to compete is generally FDAP income. Its
source is the place where the promisor forfeited their right
to act. Amounts paid to a nonresident alien for their promise not to compete in the United States are subject to
chapter 3 withholding and are withholdable payments.

Withholding on Specific
Income
Different kinds of income are subject to different withholding requirements.

Effectively Connected Income
In most cases, when a foreign person engages in a trade
or business in the United States, all income from sources
in the United States connected with the conduct of that
trade or business is considered effectively connected with
a U.S. business. FDAP income may or may not be effectively connected with a U.S. business. For example, effectively connected income (ECI) includes rents from real
property if the alien chooses to treat that income as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business.
The factors to be considered in establishing whether
FDAP income and similar amounts are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business include:

• Whether the income is from assets used in, or held for
use in, the conduct of that trade or business; or

• Whether the activities of that trade or business were a
material factor in the realization of the income.

Income from securities. There is a special rule determining whether income from securities is effectively connected with the active conduct of a U.S. banking, financing, or similar business.
If the foreign person’s U.S. office actively and materially
participates in soliciting, negotiating, or performing other
activities required to arrange the acquisition of securities,
the U.S. source interest or dividend income from the securities, gain or loss from their sale or exchange, income
or gain economically equivalent to such amounts, or
amounts received for providing a guarantee of indebtedness, is attributable to the U.S. office and is ECI.
Withholding exemption. In most cases, you do not need
to withhold tax on income for purposes of chapter 3 or 4 if
you receive a Form W-8ECI on which a foreign payee represents that:

• The foreign payee is the beneficial owner of the income;

• The income is effectively connected with the conduct
of a trade or business in the United States; and

• For purposes of chapter 3 withholding, the income is
includible in the payee’s gross income.

This withholding exemption applies to income for services performed by a foreign partnership or foreign corporation (unless item (4) below applies to the corporation).
The exemption does not apply, however, to:
1. Pay for personal services performed by an individual
for purposes of chapter 3 (see Pay for Personal Services Performed, later),

38

Publication 515 (2026)

2. ECTI of a partnership that is allocable to its foreign
partners (see Partnership Withholding on ECTI, later),
3. Income from the disposition of a USRPI (see U.S.
Real Property Interest, later), or
4. Payments to a foreign corporation for personal services if all of the following apply.
a. The foreign corporation otherwise qualifies as a
personal holding company for income tax purposes,
b. The foreign corporation receives amounts under a
contract for personal services of an individual
whom the corporation has no right to designate,
c. 25% or more in value of the outstanding stock of
the foreign corporation at some time during the tax
year is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for an individual who has performed, is to perform, or may
be designated as the one to perform, the services
called for under the contract.
Withholding exemption for purposes of chapter 4. Income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or
business in the United States is not a withholdable payment under chapter 4 and thus is not subject to withholding for chapter 4 purposes. You do not need to withhold
tax under chapter 4 if you receive a Form W-8ECI on
which a foreign payee makes the representations described in Withholding exemptions, earlier.
Notional principal contract income. Certain payments
attributable to a notional principal contract are not subject
to withholding regardless of whether a Form W-8ECI is
provided. However, payments of dividend equivalents (described later under Dividend equivalent) are generally
subject to withholding.
Income from a notional principal contract is subject to
reporting on Form 1042-S if it is effectively connected with
the conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
You must treat the income as effectively connected with a
U.S. trade or business if you pay the income to, or to the
account of, a qualified business unit (a branch) of a foreign person located in the United States or a qualified
business unit located outside the United States and you
know, or have reason to know, the income is effectively
connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
You do not need to treat notional principal contract income
as effectively connected if you receive a Form W-8BEN-E
that represents that the income is not effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business or if the
payee provides a representation in a master agreement or
in the confirmation on the particular notional principal contract transaction that the payee is a U.S. person or a
non-U.S. branch of a foreign person.
Income paid to U.S. branch of foreign bank or insurance company. A payment to a U.S. branch of a foreign
bank subject to regulatory supervision by the Federal Reserve Board or a U.S. branch of a foreign insurance company required to file an annual statement on a form approved by the National Association of Insurance
Publication 515 (2026)

Commissioners with the Insurance Department of any
U.S. state, a U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia is
presumed to be effectively connected with the conduct of
a trade or business in the United States if you have an EIN
for the branch, unless the branch provides a Form
W-8BEN-E or Form W-8IMY for the income. If a U.S.
branch of a foreign bank or insurance company receives
income that the payer did not withhold upon because of
the presumption that the income was effectively connected with the U.S. branch’s trade or business, the U.S.
branch is required to withhold on the income if it is in fact
not effectively connected with the conduct of its trade or
business in the United States. Withholding is required
whether the payment was collected on behalf of other persons or on behalf of another branch of the same entity.

Income Not Effectively Connected
This section discusses the specific types of income that
are subject to chapter 3 withholding and where withholding under chapter 4 is required. The income codes contained in this section correspond to the income codes
used in the current-year revision of Form 1042-S (discussed later).
For purposes of chapter 3, you must withhold tax at the
statutory rates shown in Chart C unless a reduced rate or
exemption under a tax treaty applies. For U.S. source
gross income that is not effectively connected with a U.S.
trade or business, the rate is usually 30%. In most cases,
you must withhold the tax at the time you pay the income
to the foreign person. See When to withhold, earlier.

Interest
Interest from U.S. sources paid to foreign payees is subject to chapter 3 withholding and is a withholdable payment (except when the interest is paid with respect to a
grandfathered obligation or another exemption under
chapter 4 applies). When making a payment on an interest-bearing obligation, you must withhold on the gross
amount of stated interest payable on the interest payment
date, even if the payment or a part of the payment may be
a return of capital rather than interest.
A substitute interest payment made to the transferor of
a security in a securities lending transaction or a sale-repurchase transaction is treated the same as the interest
on the transferred security. Use income code 33 to report
these substitute payments.
Interest paid by U.S. obligors—general (income code
1). With specific exceptions, such as portfolio interest (for
purposes of chapter 3), you must withhold on interest paid
or credited on bonds, debentures, notes, open account indebtedness, governmental obligations, certain deferred
payment arrangements (as provided in section 483), or
other evidences of indebtedness of U.S. obligors. U.S. obligors include the U.S. Government or its agencies or instrumentalities, any U.S. citizen or resident, any U.S. corporation, and any U.S. partnership.
39

If, in a sale of a corporation’s property, payment of the
bonds or other obligations of the corporation is assumed
by the buyer, that buyer, whether an individual, partnership, or corporation, must deduct and withhold the taxes
that would be required to be withheld by the selling corporation as if there had been no sale or transfer. Also, if interest coupons are in default, the tax must be withheld on the
gross amount of interest whether or not the payment is a
return of capital or the payment of income.
A resident alien paying interest on a margin account
maintained with a foreign brokerage firm must withhold
from the interest whether the interest is paid directly or
constructively.
Interest on bonds of a U.S. corporation paid to a foreign
corporation not engaged in a trade or business in the United States is subject to withholding even if the interest is
guaranteed by a foreign corporation.
Domestic corporations must withhold on interest credited to foreign subsidiaries or foreign parents.
For withholding under chapter 4 on the interest payments described in this section, see the definition of withholdable payments in Regulations section 1.1473-1(a).

Chart C. Withholding Tax Rates for
Purposes of Chapter 3

pensions—part paid for personal services
(see Pensions, Annuities, and Alimony,
later)

graduated rates in
Circular A or Circular E

Original issue discount (income code 30). Original issue discount paid on the redemption of an obligation is
subject to chapter 3 withholding and is a withholdable
payment (except when paid with respect to a grandfathered obligation). Original issue discount paid as part of the
purchase price of an obligation sold or exchanged, other
than in a redemption, is not subject to chapter 3 withholding unless the purchase is part of a plan the principal purpose of which is to avoid tax and the withholding agent
has actual knowledge or reason to know of the plan. However, such original issue discount is a withholdable payment (except when paid with respect to a grandfathered
obligation). Withholding is required by a person other than
the issuer of an obligation (or the issuer’s agent).
The original issue discount that is subject to chapter 3
withholding and is a withholdable payment (except when
paid with respect to a grandfathered obligation) is the taxable amount of original issue discount. The taxable
amount for both chapters 3 and 4 withholding purposes is
the original issue discount that accrued while the obligation was held by the foreign beneficial owner up to the
time the obligation was sold or exchanged or a payment
was made, reduced by any original issue discount that
was previously taxed. If a payment was made, the tax due
on the original issue discount may not exceed the payment reduced by the tax imposed on the part of the payment that is qualified stated interest.
If you cannot determine the taxable amount, you must
withhold on the entire amount of original issue discount
accrued from the date of issue until the date of redemption
(or sale or exchange, if subject to chapter 3 withholding or
a withholdable payment) is determined on the basis of the
most recent published Pub. 1212.
For more information on original issue discount, see
Pub. 550.

wages paid to a nonresident alien
employee (see Pay for Personal Services
Performed, later)

graduated rates in
Circular A or Circular E

each foreign partner’s allocable share of the
partnership’s ECTI (see Partnership
Withholding on ECTI, later)

37% for noncorporate
partners; 21% for
corporate partners

distributions of ECTI to foreign partners by
PTPs (see Publicly Traded Partnerships,
later)

37% for noncorporate
partners; 21% for
corporate partners

40

Note: You must withhold tax at the following rates on
payments of income unless a reduced rate or exemption is
authorized under a tax treaty. The President may apply
higher tax rates on income paid to residents or
corporations of foreign countries that impose burdensome
or discriminatory taxes on U.S. persons.
IF you paid the following type of
income...

THEN you must
generally withhold at
the following rate...

taxable part of U.S. scholarship or
fellowship grant paid to holder of “F,” “J,” “M,”
or “Q” visa (see Scholarships and
Fellowship Grants, later)

14%

gross investment income from interest,
dividends, rents, and royalties paid to a
foreign private foundation

4%

dispositions of USRPI (see U.S. Real
Property Interest, later)

15%*

dispositions of partnership interests under
section 1446(f)

10%

dividends paid to Puerto Rican corporation

10%

all other income subject to withholding

30%

*21% in the case of certain distributions by corporations, partnerships, trusts, or estates.

Reduced Rates of Withholding on Interest
Caution: Notwithstanding the exception from withholding
under chapter 3 on interest described under this heading,
withholding may still apply under chapter 4 when the payment is a withholdable payment and an exception from
withholding under chapter 4 does not apply.
Certain interest is subject to a reduced rate of, or exemption from, withholding.
Portfolio interest exempt from chapter 3 withholding.
Interest and original issue discount that qualifies as portfolio interest is exempt from chapter 3 withholding. However,
these amounts are not exempt from withholding under
chapter 4 when the interest is a withholdable payment, unless an exception from chapter 4 withholding applies. To
qualify as portfolio interest, the interest must be paid on
obligations issued after July 18, 1984, and otherwise subject to chapter 3 withholding.
Publication 515 (2026)

Note: The rules for determining whether interest is
portfolio interest changed for obligations issued after
March 18, 2012. Before March 19, 2012, portfolio interest
included interest on certain registered and nonregistered
(bearer) bonds if the obligations meet the requirements
described below.
For obligations issued after March 18, 2012, portfolio
interest does not include interest paid on debt that is not in
registered form, except for interest paid on foreign-targeted registered obligations issued before January 1, 2016,
as described in Foreign-targeted registered obligations,
later.
Obligations in registered form. Portfolio interest includes interest paid on an obligation that is in registered
form, and for which you have received documentation that
the beneficial owner of the obligation is not a U.S. person.
Generally, an obligation is in registered form if (i) the
obligation is registered as to both principal and any stated
interest with the issuer (or its agent) and any transfer of
the obligation may be effected only by surrender of the old
obligation and reissuance to the new holder, (ii) the right
to principal and stated interest with respect to the obligation may be transferred only through a book entry system
maintained by the issuer or its agent, or (iii) the obligation
is registered as to both principal and stated interest with
the issuer or its agent and can be transferred both by surrender and reissuance and through a book entry system.
An obligation that would otherwise be considered to be
in registered form is not considered to be in registered
form as of a particular time if it can be converted at any
time in the future into an obligation that is not in registered
form, except as otherwise provided in Notice 2012-20,
2012-13
I.R.B.
574,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2012-13_IRB#NOT-2012-20, as described in the following
section.
Dematerialized book-entry systems and effectively
immobilized obligations. An obligation will be considered to be in registered form if it is issued through either a
dematerialized book entry system maintained by a clearing organization (or agent thereof) or a clearing system in
which the obligation (including a global obligation in
bearer form) is effectively immobilized. See Notice
2012-20, amplified by Notice 2013-43, 2013-31 I.R.B.
113, available at IRS.gov/irb/2013-31_IRB#NOT-2013-43.
Under dematerialized book-entry systems, bonds are
required to be represented only by book entries, and no
physical certificates are issued or transferred. The bonds
are transferred only by book entries.
An obligation will be considered to be effectively immobilized if (1) it is represented by one or more global securities in physical form that are issued to and held by a clearing organization (or by a custodian or depository acting as
an agent of the clearing organization) for the benefit of
purchasers and under arrangements that prohibit transfer
except to a successor clearing organization subject to the
same terms, and (2) beneficial interest in the underlying
obligation is transferable only through a book-entry system maintained by the clearing organization or its agent.
These bonds are considered to be in registered form if
the holder may only obtain a physical certificate in bearer
Publication 515 (2026)

form when (1) the clearing organization that maintains the
book-entry system goes out of business without a successor, (2) the issuer defaults, or (3) definitive securities are
issued at the issuer’s request upon a change in tax law adverse to the issuer. See Notice 2012-20 and proposed
regulations in 82 FR 43720, for more information on registered form requirements.
Foreign-targeted registered obligations. A registered bond issued after March 18, 2012, and before January 1, 2016, will also be considered to be in registered
form if it is targeted to foreign markets, and portfolio interest treatment may apply even when you do not receive
documentation regarding the beneficial owner of the
bond.
If the registered obligation is not targeted to foreign
markets, you must receive documentation on which you
may rely to treat the payee as a foreign person that is the
beneficial owner of the interest. A registered obligation is
targeted to foreign markets if it is sold (or resold in connection with its original issuance) only to foreign persons
or to foreign branches of U.S. FIs in accordance with procedures similar to those provided in Regulations section
1.163-5(c)(2)(i). However, the procedure that requires the
obligation to be offered for sale (or resale) only outside the
United States does not apply if the registered obligation is
offered for sale through a public auction. Also, the procedure that requires the obligation to be delivered outside
the United States does not apply if the obligation is considered registered because it may be transferred only
through a book-entry system and the obligation is offered
for sale through a public auction. The documentation needed depends on whether the interest is paid to an FI, a
member of a clearing organization, or to some other foreign person. See Notice 2012-20 and Regulations section
1.871-14(e) for more information on foreign-targeted registered obligations.
Obligations not in registered form and obligations
issued before March 19, 2012. For obligations issued
before March 19, 2012, interest on an obligation that is not
in registered form (bearer obligation) is portfolio interest if
the obligation is foreign targeted. A bearer obligation is
foreign targeted if:

• There are arrangements to ensure that the obligation

will be sold, or resold in connection with the original issue, only to a person who is not a U.S. person;

• Interest on the obligation is payable only outside the
United States and its territories; and

• The face of the obligation contains a statement that

any U.S. person who holds the obligation will be subject to limits under the U.S. income tax laws.

Documentation is not required for interest on bearer obligations to qualify as portfolio interest. In some cases,
however, you may need documentation for purposes of
Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding.
Interest on such obligations is not a withholdable payment under chapter 4, except when the instrument is materially modified after March 18, 2012.

41

Interest that does not qualify as portfolio interest.
Payments to certain persons and payments of contingent
interest do not qualify as portfolio interest. You must withhold at the statutory rate on such payments unless some
other exception, such as a treaty provision, applies and
withholding under chapter 4 does not apply.
Contingent interest. Portfolio interest generally does
not include contingent interest. Contingent interest is interest that is determined by reference to any of the following.

• Any receipts, sales, or other cash flow of the debtor or
a related person.

• Income or profits of the debtor or a related person.
• Any change in value of any property of the debtor or a
related person.

allocates all or some part of its allocable share of REMIC
taxable income to a foreign partner, the partner must include the partner’s allocated amount in income as if that
amount was received on the earlier of the following dates.
1. The date of distribution by the partnership.
2. The date the foreign partner disposed of its indirect interest in the REMIC residual interest.
3. The last day of the partnership’s tax year.
For purposes of item (2), the disposition may occur as a
result of:

• A termination of the REMIC,
• A disposition of the partnership’s residual interest in
the REMIC,

• Any dividend, partnership distributions, or similar pay-

• A disposition of the foreign partner’s interest in the

• Any amount that is a dividend equivalent.

• Any other reduction in the foreign partner’s allocable

ments made by the debtor or a related person.

The term “related person” is defined in section 871(h)
(4)(B).
The contingent interest rule does not apply to any interest paid or accrued on any indebtedness with a fixed term
that was issued:

• On or before April 7, 1993; or
• After April 7, 1993, pursuant to a written binding contract in effect on that date and at all times thereafter
before that indebtedness was issued.

10% owners. Interest paid to a foreign person that
owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of
all classes of stock of a corporation, or 10% or more of the
capital or profits interest in a partnership, that issued the
obligation on which the interest is paid is not portfolio interest. To determine 10% ownership, see Regulations section 1.871-14(g).
Banks. Except in the case of interest paid on an obligation of the United States, interest paid to a bank on an
extension of credit made pursuant to a loan agreement
entered into in the ordinary course of the bank’s trade or
business does not qualify as portfolio interest.
Controlled foreign corporations. Interest paid to a
controlled foreign corporation from a person related to the
controlled foreign corporation is not portfolio interest.
Reduced rate or exemption from chapter 3 withholding for interest on real property mortgages (income
code 2). Certain treaties permit a reduced rate or exemption for interest paid or credited on real property mortgages. This is interest paid on any type of debt instrument
that is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on real
property located in the United States, regardless of
whether the mortgagor (or grantor) is a U.S. citizen or a
U.S. business entity.
REMIC excess inclusions. A domestic partnership
must separately state a partner’s allocable share of REMIC taxable income or net loss and the excess inclusion
amount on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065). If the partnership
42

partnership, or

share of the partnership’s part of the REMIC net income or deduction.

The partnership must withhold tax on the part of the
REMIC amount that is an excess inclusion. Excess inclusion income is treated as income from sources in the United States and is not eligible for any reduction in withholding tax (by treaty or otherwise). It is also a withholdable
payment for chapter 4 purposes.
An excess inclusion allocated to the following foreign
persons must be included in that person’s income at the
same time as other income from the entity is included in
income.

• Shareholder of a real estate investment trust (REIT).
• Shareholder of a regulated investment company
(RIC).

• Participant in a common trust fund.
• Patron of a subchapter T cooperative organization.
The entity must withhold on the excess inclusion.
For information on the taxation and reporting of excess
inclusion income by REITs, RICs, and other pass-through
entities, see Notice 2006-97, 2006-46 I.R.B. 904, available
at IRS.gov/irb/2006-46_IRB#NOT-2006-97.
Reduced rate or exemption from chapter 3 withholding for interest paid to controlling foreign corporations (income code 3). A treaty may permit a reduced
rate or exemption for interest paid by a domestic corporation to a controlling foreign corporation. The interest may
be on any type of debt, including open or unsecured accounts payable, notes, certificates, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness.
Reduced rate or exemption from chapter 3 withholding for interest paid by foreign corporations (income
code 4). If a foreign corporation is engaged in a U.S.
trade or business, any interest paid by the foreign corporation’s trade or business in the United States (branch interest) is subject to chapter 3 withholding as if paid by a domestic corporation (without considering the “payer having
income from abroad” exception) and is a withholdable
Publication 515 (2026)

payment. As a result, the interest paid to foreign payees is
generally subject to chapter 3 withholding and withholding
may apply under chapter 4 absent an applicable withholding exception. In addition, if “allocable interest” exceeds
the branch interest paid, the excess interest is also subject
to tax and reported on the foreign corporation’s income tax
return, Form 1120-F, U.S. Income Tax Return of a Foreign
Corporation. See the Instructions for Form 1120-F for
more information.
If there is no treaty provision that reduces the rate of
withholding on branch interest, you must withhold tax under chapter 3 at the statutory rate of 30% on the interest
paid by a foreign corporation’s U.S. trade or business and
you must withhold under chapter 4 when otherwise applicable and without regard to a treaty provision.

Deposits include certificates of deposit, open account
time deposits, Eurodollar certificates of deposit, and other
deposit arrangements.
You may have to file Form 1042-S to report certain payments of interest on deposits. See Deposit interest paid to
certain nonresident alien individuals under Returns Required, later. You may also have to file Form 1042-S when
the deposit interest is a withholdable payment to which
withholding applies (or was applied) to chapter 4.

In general, payees of interest from a U.S. trade or business of a foreign corporation are entitled to reduced rates
of, or exemption from, tax under a treaty in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as if they had received the interest from a domestic corporation. However,
a foreign corporation that receives interest paid by a U.S.
trade or business of a foreign corporation must also be a
qualified resident of its country of residence to be entitled
to benefits under that country’s tax treaty. If the payee foreign corporation is a resident of a country that has entered
into an income tax treaty since 1987 that contains an LOB
article, the foreign corporation need only satisfy the LOB
article in that treaty to qualify for a reduced rate of tax.

ces has been from active foreign business for the 3 tax
years of the payer before the year in which the interest
is paid, or for the applicable part of those 3 years.

Alternatively, a payee may be entitled to treaty benefits
under the payer’s treaty if there is a provision in that treaty
that applies specifically to interest paid by the payer foreign corporation. This provision may exempt all or a part
of this interest. Some treaties provide for an exemption regardless of the payee’s residence or citizenship, while others provide for an exemption according to the payee’s status as a resident or citizen of the payer’s country.

Obligations issued before August 10, 2010. Interest
received from a resident alien individual or a domestic corporation is not subject to chapter 3 withholding and is not
a withholdable payment if the interest meets all of the following requirements.

• At least 80% of the payer’s gross income from all sour-

• The recipient is not a related person. Use rules similar
to those in section 954(d)(3) to determine if the recipient is a related person.

• The interest is paid on an obligation issued before August 10, 2010.

• The obligation has not been significantly modified
since August 10, 2010.

Interest from foreign business arrangements. In
certain cases, interest received from a domestic payer,
most of whose gross income is active foreign business income, is not subject to chapter 3 withholding and is not a
withholdable payment.
Active foreign business income is gross income that is:

• Derived from sources outside the United States, and
• Attributable to the active conduct of a trade or business in a foreign country or territory of the United
States by the domestic payer.

A foreign corporation that pays interest must be a qualified resident (under section 884) of its country of residence for the payer’s treaty to exempt payments from tax
by the foreign corporation. However, if the foreign corporation is a resident of a country that has entered into an income tax treaty since 1987 that contains an LOB article,
the foreign corporation need only satisfy the LOB article in
that treaty to qualify for the exemption.

Corporations existing on January 1, 2011. Certain interest received from a domestic corporation that is an existing 80/20 company is not subject to withholding. An existing 80/20 company must meet all of the following
requirements.

Interest on deposits (income code 29). Foreign persons are not subject to chapter 3 withholding on interest
that is not connected with a U.S. trade or business if it is
from:

(or for its years of existence if the corporation was in
existence for less than 3 tax years), at least 80% of its
gross income from all sources was active foreign business income.

• It was in existence on January 1, 2011.
• For the 3 tax years beginning before January 1, 2011

• Deposits with persons carrying on the banking busi-

• It continues to meet the 80% test for every tax year be-

• Deposits or withdrawable accounts with savings institutions chartered and supervised under federal or
state law as savings and loan or similar associations,
such as credit unions, if the interest is or would be deductible by the institutions; or

• It has not added a substantial line of business after

ness;

• Amounts left with an insurance company under an
agreement to pay interest on them.

Publication 515 (2026)

ginning after December 31, 2010.
August 10, 2010.

Transitional rule for active foreign business income.
In most cases, the domestic corporation determines its
active foreign business income by combining its income
and the income of any subsidiary in which it owns, directly
43

or indirectly, 50% or more of the stock. However, if the
testing period includes 1 or more tax years beginning before January 1, 2011, the corporation can use only its
gross income for any tax year beginning before January 1,
2011, and will meet the 80% test if the weighted average
percentage of active foreign business income is more than
80%.
A foreign beneficial owner does not need to provide a
Form W-8 or documentary evidence for this exception.
However, documentation may be required for purposes of
Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding.
Sales of bonds between interest dates. Amounts paid
as part of the purchase price of an obligation sold or exchanged between interest payment dates is not subject to
chapter 3 withholding. In addition, such a payment is not a
withholdable payment. This does not apply if the sale or
exchange is part of a plan the principal purpose of which
is to avoid tax and you have actual knowledge or reason to
know of the plan. The exemption from chapter 3 withholding and from withholdable payments applies even if you
do not have any documentation from the payee. However,
documentation may be required for purposes of Form
1099 reporting and backup withholding.
Short-term obligations. Interest and original issue discount paid on an obligation that is payable 183 days or
less from the date of its original issue (without regard to
the period held by the taxpayer) that satisfy other requirements intended to ensure that the debt is not held by a
U.S. nonexempt person are not subject to chapter 3 withholding. In addition, such a payment is not a withholdable
payment. These exemptions apply even if you do not have
any documentation from the payee. However, documentation may be required for purposes of Form 1099 reporting
and backup withholding.
Income from U.S. Savings Bonds of residents of the
Ryukyu Islands or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. Interest from a Series E, Series EE, Series H, or
Series HH U.S. Savings Bond is not subject to chapter 3
withholding if the nonresident alien individual acquired the
bond while a resident of the Ryukyu Islands or the Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands.

However, a distributing corporation or intermediary may
elect to not withhold on the part of the distribution that:
1. Represents a nontaxable distribution payable in stock
or stock rights;
2. Represents a distribution in part or full payment in exchange for stock;
3. Is not paid out of current or accumulated earnings and
profits, based on a reasonable estimate of the anticipated amount of earnings and profits for the tax year
of the distribution made at a time reasonably close to
the date of the distribution;
4. Represents a capital gain distribution (use income
code 36) or an exempt interest dividend by a RIC; or
5. Is subject to withholding under section 1445 (withholding of tax on dispositions of USRPIs) and the distributing corporation is a U.S. real property holding
corporation (USRPHC) or a qualified investment entity
(QIE).
The election is made by actually reducing the amount
of withholding at the time the distribution is paid.
is:

Dividends paid by a QIE (income code 24). A QIE

1. Any REIT, or
2. Any RIC that is a USRPHC.
A distribution by a QIE to a nonresident alien or a foreign corporation is treated as a dividend and is not subject
to withholding under section 1445 as a gain from the sale
or exchange of a USRPI if:

• The distribution is on stock regularly traded on a securities market in the United States, and

• The individual or corporation did not own more than

10% of such stock in the case of a REIT or 5% of such
stock in the case of a RIC at any time during the
1-year period ending on the date of distribution.

Dividends

Certain distributions by a REIT may be treated as a dividend and are not subject to withholding under section
1445 as a gain from the sale or exchange of a USRPI. See
Qualified investment entities (QIEs) under U.S. Real Property Interest, later.

The following types of dividends paid to foreign payees
are generally subject to chapter 3 withholding and are
generally withholdable payments such that withholding
chapter 4 applies absent an exception available under
chapter 4.

Dividends paid by a domestic corporation (an existing “80/20” company). The active foreign business
percentage of any dividend paid by a domestic corporation that is an existing 80/20 company is not subject to
withholding. A domestic corporation is an existing 80/20
company if it satisfies all of the following.

Dividends paid by U.S. corporations—general (income code 6). This category includes all distributions of
domestic corporations (other than dividends qualifying for
direct dividend rate—income code 7).
A corporation making a distribution with respect to its
stock, or any intermediary making a payment of such a
distribution, is required to withhold on the entire amount of
the distribution at the rate applicable under chapter 3
when withholding under chapter 4 does not apply.
44

1. It was in existence on January 1, 2011.
2. For the 3 tax years beginning before January 1, 2011
(or for all years of existence if it was in existence for
less than 3 tax years), at least 80% of its gross income from all sources was active foreign business income. Active foreign business income is gross income that is:

Publication 515 (2026)

a. Derived from sources outside the United States,
and

ness. A foreign person should claim the direct dividend
rate by filing the appropriate Form W-8.

b. Attributable to the active conduct of a trade or
business in a foreign country or territory of the United States by the corporation.

Consent dividends. If you receive a Form 972 from a
foreign shareholder qualifying for the direct dividend rate,
you must pay and report on Form 1042 and Form 1042-S
any withholding tax you would have withheld if the dividend actually had been paid.

3. It continues to meet the 80% test for every tax year
beginning after December 31, 2010.
4. It has not added a substantial line of business after
August 10, 2010.
Transitional rule for item (2). In most cases, the domestic corporation determines its active foreign business
income by combining its income and the income of any
subsidiary in which it owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or
more of the stock. However, if the testing period includes 1
or more tax years beginning before January 1, 2011, the
corporation can use only its gross income for any tax year
beginning before January 1, 2011, and will meet the 80%
test if the weighted average percentage of active foreign
business income is more than 80%.
The active foreign business percentage is found by dividing the corporation’s active foreign business income for
the testing period by the corporation’s total gross income
for that period. The testing period is the 3 tax years before
the year in which the dividends are declared (or shorter
period if the corporation was not in existence for 3 years).
If the corporation has no gross income for that 3-year period, the testing period is the tax year in which the dividend is paid.
Consent dividends. If you receive a Form 972, Consent of Shareholder To Include Specific Amount in Gross
Income, from a nonresident alien individual or other foreign shareholder who agrees to treat the amount as a taxable dividend, you must pay and report on Form 1042 and
Form 1042-S any withholding tax you would have withheld
if the dividend actually had been paid.
Interest-related dividends and short-term capital
gain dividends received from mutual funds. Certain
interest-related dividends and short-term capital gain dividends paid by a mutual fund or other RIC are exempt from
chapter 3 withholding.
Dividends qualifying for direct dividend rate (income
code 7). A treaty may reduce the rate of withholding on
dividends from that which generally applies under the
treaty if the shareholder owns a certain percentage of the
voting stock of the corporation when withholding under
chapter 4 does not apply. In most cases, this preferential
rate applies only if the shareholder directly owns the required percentage, although some treaties permit the percentage to be met by direct or indirect ownership. The
preferential rate may apply to the payment of a deemed
dividend under section 304(a)(1). Under some treaties,
the preferential rate for dividends qualifying for the direct
dividend rate applies only if no more than a certain percentage of the paying corporation’s gross income for a
certain period consists of dividends and interest other
than dividends and interest from subsidiaries or from the
active conduct of a banking, financing, or insurance busiPublication 515 (2026)

Dividends paid by foreign corporations (income code
8). Dividends paid by a foreign corporation are generally
not subject to chapter 3 withholding and are not withholdable payments. This exception does not require a Form
W-8. However, a Form W-8 may be required for purposes
of Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding.
The payment to a foreign corporation by a foreign corporation of a deemed dividend under section 304(a)(1) is
subject to chapter 3 withholding and may be a withholdable payment except to the extent it can be clearly determined to be from foreign sources.
Corporation subject to branch profits tax. If a foreign corporation is subject to branch profits tax for any tax
year, withholding is not required on any dividends paid by
the corporation out of its earnings and profits for that tax
year. Dividends may be subject to withholding if they are
attributable to any earnings and profits when the branch
profits tax is prohibited by a tax treaty.
A foreign person may claim a treaty benefit on dividends paid by a foreign corporation to the extent the dividends are paid out of earnings and profits in a year in
which the foreign corporation was not subject to the
branch profits tax. However, you may apply a reduced rate
of withholding under an income tax treaty only under rules
similar to the rules that apply to treaty benefits claimed on
branch interest paid by a foreign corporation. You should
check the specific treaty provision.
Dividends paid to Puerto Rican corporation. For
chapter 3 purposes, the tax rate on dividends paid to a
corporation created or organized in, or under the law of,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is 10%, rather than
30%, if:

• At all times during the tax year less than 25% in value
of the Puerto Rican corporation’s stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by foreign persons;

• At least 65% of the Puerto Rican corporation’s gross

income is effectively connected with the conduct of a
trade or business in Puerto Rico or the United States
for the 3-year period ending with the close of the tax
year of that corporation (or the period the corporation
or any predecessor has been in existence, if less); and

• No substantial part of the income of the Puerto Rican

corporation is used, directly or indirectly, to satisfy obligations to a person who is not a bona fide resident of
Puerto Rico or the United States.

No special rules apply to Puerto Rican corporations for
chapter 4 purposes, but special withholding rules do apply
for withholdable payments made to territory financial institutions and nonfinancial entities. See the chapter 4 regulations for information on these special requirements.
45

Dividend Equivalents

Gains

Dividend equivalent payments are treated as U.S. source
dividends such that withholding under chapter 3 may apply. Dividend equivalent payments are withholdable payments except when an exception applies for chapter 4
purposes. Dividend equivalent payments are divided into
three income code reporting categories.

You generally do not need to withhold under chapter 3 or 4
on any gain from the sale of real or personal property because it is not FDAP income. However, see U.S. Real
Property Interest, later.

1. Substitute dividends that are dividend equivalents (income code 34 or 53).
2. Dividend equivalents with respect to transactions that
are section 871(m) transactions as a result of combining transactions under Regulations section
1.871-15(n) (income code 56).
3. All other dividend equivalents (income code 40).

Capital gains (income code 9). You must withhold at
30%, or if applicable, a reduced treaty rate, on the gross
amount of the following items.

• Gains on the disposal of timber, coal, or domestic iron
ore with a retained economic interest, unless an election is made to treat those gains as income effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business.

• Gains on contingent payments received from the sale

or exchange after October 4, 1966, of patents, copyrights, secret processes and formulas, goodwill, trademarks, trade brands, franchises, and other like property.

Note: Because a dividend equivalent is determined on a
gross basis, there may be a payment for reporting purposes even when there is no transfer of funds. See Regulations section 1.871-15(i).

• Gains on certain transfers of all substantial rights to, or

Amounts Paid to Qualified Securities
Lenders (QSLs)

• Certain gains from the sale or exchange of original is-

A withholding agent that makes substitute dividend payments to a QSL may apply the transition rules described in
Notice 2010-46, Part III, C, D and E, for payments made
before January 1, 2027, which do not include the credit
forward provisions. See Notice 2024-44, 2024-25 I.R.B.
1737, available at IRS.gov/irb2024-25_IRB#NOT-2024-44.

Amounts Paid to QDDs
A withholding agent that makes a payment to a QI that is
acting as a QDD is not required to withhold on the following payments if the withholding agent can reliably associate the payment with a valid QI withholding certification
that satisfies the documentation requirements.
1. A payment with respect to a potential section 871(m)
transaction that is not an underlying security (see
Regulations section 1.871-15(a)(12) and (15) for the
definitions of potential section 871(m) transaction and
underlying security).
2. A payment of a dividend equivalent.
3. A payment of a dividend received by the QDD in its
equity derivatives dealer capacity prior to January 1,
2027.
All other payments to a QDD, including dividends not
received in its equity derivatives dealer capacity and any
other U.S. source FDAP payments in any capacity, remain
subject to withholding to the extent required under the
general withholding rules.
For more information on amounts paid to QDDs, see
Regulations section 1.1441-1(b)(4)(xxii) and Notice
2024-44.
46

an undivided interest in, patents if the transfers were
made before October 5, 1966.

sue discount obligations issued after March 31, 1972.
For more on withholding on original issue discount obligations, see Interest, earlier.

If you do not know the amount of the gain, you must
withhold an amount necessary to ensure that the tax withheld will not be less than 30% of the recognized gain. The
amount to be withheld, however, must not be more than
30% of the amount payable because of the transaction.
Unless you have reason to believe otherwise, you may
rely upon the written statement of the person entitled to
the income as to the amount of gain. The Form W-8 or
documentary evidence must show the beneficial owner’s
basis in the property giving rise to the gain.
Tax treaties. Many tax treaties exempt certain types of
gains from U.S. income tax. Be sure to carefully check the
provision of the treaty that applies before allowing an exemption from withholding.

Royalties
In general, you must withhold tax under chapter 3 on the
payment of royalties from sources in the United States.
However, certain types of royalties are given reduced
rates or exemptions under some tax treaties. Accordingly,
these different types of royalties are treated as separate
categories for withholding purposes. For chapter 4 purposes, royalties are nonfinancial payments and are therefore
excluded as withholdable payments.
Caution: Most treaties have more than one withholding
rate on royalties, which varies by the classification of the
payment in that treaty. Be sure to check your particular
treaty for the specific rate that applies to you.
Industrial royalties (income code 10). This category of
income includes royalties for the use of, or the right to use,
Publication 515 (2026)

patents, trademarks, secret processes and formulas,
goodwill, franchises, “know-how,” and similar rights. It may
also include payments for the use of, or right to use, industrial, commercial, and scientific equipment, when this is included in the treaty definition of royalties.
Motion picture or television copyright royalties (income code 11). This category refers to royalties paid for
the use of motion picture and television copyrights.
Other royalties (for example, copyright, software,
broadcasting, endorsement payments) (income code
12). This category refers to the royalties paid for the use
of copyrights on books, periodicals, articles, etc., except
motion picture and television copyrights.

Real Property Income and Natural
Resources Royalties (Income Code 14)
You must withhold tax under chapter 3 on income (such as
rents and royalties) from real property located in the United States and held for the production of income, unless
the foreign payee elects to treat this income as effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business. If the foreign
payee chooses to treat this income as effectively connected, the payee must give you Form W-8ECI (discussed
earlier). This real property income includes royalties from
mines, wells, or other natural deposits, as well as ordinary
rents for the use of real property. For chapter 4 purposes,
income from real property is either a nonfinancial payment
(and therefore not a withholdable payment) or is excluded
as a withholdable payment because it is ECI. For withholding that applies to the disposition of USRPI, see U.S.
Real Property Interest, later.

Pensions, Annuities, and Alimony (Income
Code 15)
The following rules apply to withholding on pensions, annuities, and alimony of foreign payees.
Pensions and annuities. In most cases, you must withhold tax on the gross amount of pensions and annuities
that you pay that are from sources within the United
States. This includes amounts paid under an annuity contract issued by a foreign branch of a U.S. life insurance
company.
Most tax treaties provide an exemption from tax on
non-government pensions and annuities. See the specific
treaty rules for government pensions. The exemption may
not apply to lump-sum payments. See, for example, Article
17(2) of the United States–United Kingdom income tax
treaty. In addition, it does not apply to payments treated as
deferred compensation, which is often treated as income
from employment.
For purposes of chapter 3 withholding, in the absence
of a treaty exemption, you must withhold at the statutory
rate of 30% on the entire distribution that is from sources
within the United States. You may, however, apply withholding at graduated rates to the part of a distribution that
arises from the performance of services in the United
States after December 31, 1986.
Publication 515 (2026)

Employer contributions to a defined benefit plan covering more than one individual are not made for the benefit
of a specific participant, but are made based on the total
liabilities to all participants. All funds held under the plan
are available to provide benefits to any participant. If the
distribution is from such a plan, you can use the method in
Revenue Procedure 2004-37 to allocate the distribution to
sources in the United States.
The withholding rules that apply to payments to foreign
persons generally take precedence over any other withholding rules that would apply to distributions from qualified plans and other qualified retirement arrangements.
Foreign pension plans are exempt from applying withholding under chapter 4 when they are exempt beneficial
owners under Regulations section 1.1471-6(f). A payment
from a U.S. pension plan to a foreign individual beneficiary
in the plan is not subject to withholding under chapter 4.
No withholding. Do not withhold tax on an annuity payment to a nonresident alien if, at the time of the first payment from the plan, 90% or more of the employees eligible
for benefits under the plan are citizens or residents of the
United States and the payment is:
1. For the nonresident’s personal services performed
outside the United States; or
2. For personal services by a nonresident individual
present in the United States for 90 days or less during
each tax year, whose pay for those services did not
exceed $3,000, and the personal services were performed for:
a. A nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership,
or foreign corporation not engaged in a trade or
business in the United States; or
b. An office or place of business of a U.S. resident or
citizen that was maintained outside the United
States.
If the payment otherwise qualifies under these rules,
but less than 90% of the employees eligible for benefits
are citizens or residents of the United States, you still
need not withhold tax on the payment if:

• The recipient is a resident of a country that gives a

substantially equal exclusion to U.S. citizens and residents, or

• The recipient is a resident of a beneficiary developing
country under the Trade Act of 1974.

The foreign person entitled to the payments must provide you with a Form W-8BEN that contains the TIN of the
foreign person.
Alimony payments. In most cases, alimony payments
made by U.S. resident aliens to nonresident aliens are taxable and subject to chapter 3 withholding whether the recipients are residing abroad or are temporarily present in
the United States.
Many tax treaties, however, provide for an exemption
from withholding for alimony payments. See Tax Treaties,
later, for information about treaty benefits.
47

Alimony payments made to a nonresident alien by a
U.S. ancillary administrator of a nonresident alien estate
are from foreign sources and are not subject to withholding. Alimony payments are not subject to chapter 4 withholding.
Note: Under section 11051 of P.L. 115-97 (TCJA), alimony is no longer considered income if the divorce or
separation agreement is executed after December 31,
2018, or if executed before January 1, 2019, but modified
after December 31, 2018, the modification must state that
section 11051 of P.L. 115-97 applies to the modification.

Scholarships and Fellowship Grants Subject
to Chapter 3 Withholding (Income Code 16)
A scholarship or fellowship grant is an amount given to an
individual for study, training, or research, and which does
not constitute compensation for personal services. For information about withholding on scholarship and fellowship
grants that is treated as compensation for services, see
Pay for services rendered, later. Whether a fellowship
grant from U.S. sources is subject to chapter 3 withholding
depends on the nature of the payments and whether the
recipient is a candidate for a degree. These amounts are
not subject to chapter 4 withholding. See Scholarships,
fellowships, and grants under Source of Income, earlier.
Candidate for a degree. Do not withhold on a qualified
scholarship from U.S. sources granted and paid to a candidate for a degree. A qualified scholarship means any
amount paid to an individual as a scholarship or fellowship
grant to the extent that, in accordance with the conditions
of the grant, the amount is to be used for the following expenses.

• Tuition and fees required for enrollment or attendance
at an educational organization.

• Fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for

courses of instruction at the educational organization.

The payment of a qualified scholarship to a nonresident
alien is not reportable and is not subject to withholding.
However, the part of a scholarship or fellowship paid to a
nonresident alien that does not constitute a qualified
scholarship is reportable on Form 1042-S and is subject to
withholding. For example, those parts of a scholarship devoted to travel, room, and board are subject to withholding
and are reported on Form 1042-S. The withholding rate is
14% on taxable scholarship and fellowship grants paid to
nonresident aliens temporarily present in the United
States in “F,” “J,” “M,” or “Q” nonimmigrant status. Payments made to nonresident alien individuals in any other
immigration status are subject to 30% withholding.
Nondegree candidate. If the person receiving the scholarship or fellowship grant is not a candidate for a degree,
and is present in the United States in “F,” “J,” “M,” or “Q”
nonimmigrant status, you must withhold tax at 14% on the
total amount of the grant that is from U.S. sources if the
following requirements are met.

48

1. The grant must be for study, training, or research in
the United States.
2. The grant must be made by:
a. A tax-exempt organization operated for charitable,
religious, educational, etc. purposes;
b. A foreign government;
c. A federal, state, or local government agency; or
d. An international organization, or a binational or
multinational educational or cultural organization
created or continued by the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (known as the
Fulbright-Hays Act).
If the grant does not meet both (1) and (2) above, you
must withhold at 30% on the amount of the grant that is
from U.S. sources.
Alternate withholding procedure. You may choose to
treat the taxable part of a U.S. source grant or scholarship
as wages. The student or grantee must have been admitted into the United States on an “F,” “J,” “M,” or “Q” visa.
The student or grantee will know that you are using this alternate withholding procedure when you ask for a Form
W-4.
The student or grantee must complete Form W-4 annually following the instructions given here and forward it to
you, the payer of the scholarship, or your designated withholding agent. You may rely on the information on Form
W-4 unless you know or have reason to know it is incorrect. You must file a Form 1042-S (discussed later) for
each student or grantee who gives you, or your withholding agent, a Form W-4.
Each student or grantee who files a Form W-4 must file
an annual U.S. income tax return to take the deductions
claimed on that form. If the individual is in the United
States during more than 1 tax year, they must attach a
statement to the annual Form W-4 indicating that the individual has filed a U.S. income tax return for the previous
year. If they have not been in the United States long
enough to have to file a return, the individual must attach a
statement to the Form W-4 saying that a timely U.S. income tax return will be filed.
The payer of the grant or scholarship must review the
Form W-4 to make sure all the necessary and required information is provided. If the withholding agent knows or
has reason to know that the amounts shown on the Form
W-4 may be false, the withholding agent must reject the
Form W-4 and withhold at the appropriate statutory rate
(14% or 30%).
After receipt and acceptance of the Form W-4, the
payer must withhold at the graduated rates in Pub. 15-T as
if the grant or scholarship income were wages. The gross
amount of the income is reduced by the total amount of
any deductions on the Form W-4 and the withholding tax
is figured on the rest.
Pay for services rendered. Pay for services rendered
as an employee by an alien who is also the recipient of a
scholarship or fellowship grant is usually subject to
graduated withholding under chapter 3 according to the
Publication 515 (2026)

rules discussed later in Wages Paid to Employees. This
includes taxable amounts an individual who is a candidate
for a degree receives for teaching, doing research, and
carrying out other part-time employment required as a
condition for receiving the scholarship or fellowship grant
(that is, compensatory scholarship or fellowship income).
Grants given to students, trainees, or researchers that
require the performance of personal services as a necessary condition for disbursing the grant do not qualify as
scholarship or fellowship grants. Instead, they are compensation for personal services considered to be wages. It
does not matter what term is used to describe the grant
(for example, stipend, scholarship, fellowship, etc.).
Caution: Withholding agents who pay grants that are in
fact wages must report such grants on Forms 941 and
W-2 and withhold income tax on them at the graduated
rates. Withholding agents may not allow tax treaty exemptions that apply to scholarships and fellowships to be applied to grants that are really wages. It is the responsibility
of the withholding agent to determine whether a grant is
“wages” or a “scholarship or fellowship,” and to report and
withhold on the grant accordingly. An alien student,
trainee, or researcher may not claim a scholarship or fellowship treaty exemption against income that has been reported to them on Form W-2 as wages.
Per diem paid by the U.S. Government. Per diem for
subsistence paid by the U.S. Government (directly or by
contract) to a nonresident alien engaged in a training program in the United States funded by the U.S. Agency for
International Development are not subject to 14% or 30%
withholding. This is true even if the alien is subject to income tax on those amounts.
Tax treaties. Many treaties contain exemptions from U.S.
taxation for scholarships and fellowships. Although usually
found in the student articles of the tax treaties, many of
these exemptions also apply to research grants received
by researchers who are not students. See Tax Treaties,
later, for information about treaty benefits. The treaty provision usually exempts the entire scholarship or fellowship
amount, regardless of whether the grant is a “qualified
scholarship” under U.S. law.
An alien student, trainee, or researcher may claim a
treaty exemption for a scholarship or fellowship by submitting Form W-8BEN to the payer of the grant. However, a
scholarship or fellowship recipient who receives both wages and a scholarship or fellowship from the same institution can claim treaty exemptions on both kinds of income
on Form 8233.
The scholarship or fellowship recipient who is claiming
a treaty exemption must provide you with a foreign TIN on
Form W-8BEN or, in the case of a recipient who also received wages from the same institution, a U.S. TIN on
Form 8233, or you cannot allow the treaty exemption. A
copy of a completed Form W-7, showing that a TIN has
been applied for, can be given to you with a Form 8233.
See Form 8233, later, under Pay for Personal Services
Performed.

Publication 515 (2026)

Nonresident alien who becomes a resident alien.
In most cases, only a nonresident alien individual may use
the terms of a tax treaty to reduce or eliminate U.S. tax on
income from a scholarship or fellowship grant. A student
(including a trainee or business apprentice) or researcher
who has become a resident alien for U.S. tax purposes
may not use the terms of a tax treaty due to a provision
known as a “saving clause.” However, an exception to the
saving clause may permit an exemption from tax to continue for scholarship or fellowship grant income even after
the recipient has otherwise become a U.S. resident alien
for tax purposes. In this situation, the individual must give
you a Form W-9 and an attachment that includes all the
following information.

• The treaty country.
• The treaty article addressing the income.
• The article number (or location) in the tax treaty that
contains the saving clause and its exceptions.

• The type and amount of income that qualifies for the
exemption from tax.

• Sufficient facts to justify the exemption from tax under
the terms of the treaty article.

Example. Article 20 of the U.S.–China income tax
treaty allows an exemption from tax for scholarship income received by a Chinese student temporarily present
in the United States. Under the Internal Revenue Code, a
student may become a resident alien for tax purposes if
their stay in the United States exceeds 5 calendar years.
However, the treaty allows the provisions of Article 20 to
continue to apply even after the Chinese student becomes
a resident alien of the United States.

Other Grants, Prizes, and Awards Subject to
Chapter 3 Withholding
Other grants, prizes, and awards made by grantors that reside in the United States are treated as income from sources within the United States. Those made for activities
conducted outside the United States by a foreign person
or by grantors that reside outside the United States are
treated as income from foreign sources. These provisions
do not apply to salaries or other pay for services.
Grant. The purpose of a grant must be to achieve a specific objective, produce a report or other similar product, or
improve or enhance a literary, artistic, musical, scientific,
teaching, or other similar capacity, skill, or talent of the
grantee. A grant must also be an amount that does not
qualify as a scholarship or fellowship. The grantor must
not intend the amount to be given to the grantee for the
purpose of aiding the grantee to perform study, training, or
research.
Prizes and awards. Prizes and awards are amounts received primarily in recognition of religious, charitable, scientific, educational, artistic, literary, or civic achievement,
or are received as the result of entering a contest. A prize

49

or award is taxable to the recipient unless all of the following conditions are met.

• The recipient was selected without any action on their
part to enter the contest or proceeding.

• The recipient is not required to render substantial future services as a condition to receive the prize or
award.

• The prize or award is transferred by the payer to a governmental unit or tax-exempt charitable organization
as designated by the recipient.

Targeted grants and achievement awards. Targeted
grants and achievement awards received by nonresident
aliens for activities conducted outside the United States
are treated as income from foreign sources. Targeted
grants and achievement awards are issued by exempt organizations or by the United States (or one of its instruments or agencies), a state (or a political subdivision of a
state), or the District of Columbia for an activity (or past
activity in the case of an achievement award) undertaken
in the public interest.

Pay for Personal Services Performed
This section explains the rules for withholding tax from pay
for personal services. You must generally withhold tax at
the 30% rate on compensation you pay to a nonresident
alien individual for labor or personal services performed in
the United States, unless that pay is specifically exempted
from withholding or subject to graduated withholding. This
rule applies regardless of your place of residence, the
place where the contract for service was made, or the
place of payment.
Payments for personal services are not withholdable
payments under chapter 4 when they are nonfinancial
payments. See Regulations section 1.1473-1(a)(4)(iii) for
a description of these payments and their exclusion as
withholdable payments.
Illegal aliens. Foreign workers who are illegal aliens are
subject to U.S. taxes in spite of their illegal status. U.S.
employers or payers who hire illegal aliens may be subject
to various fines, penalties, and sanctions imposed by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. If such employers
or payers choose to hire illegal aliens, the payments made
to those aliens are subject to the same tax withholding
and reporting obligations that apply to other classes of aliens. Illegal aliens who are nonresident aliens and who receive income from performing independent personal services are subject to 30% withholding unless exempt under
some provision of law or a tax treaty. Illegal aliens who are
resident aliens and who receive income from performing
dependent personal services are subject to the same reporting and withholding obligations that apply to U.S. citizens who receive the same kind of income.
Form 8233. This form is used by a nonresident alien individual to claim a tax treaty exemption from withholding on
some or all compensation paid for:

• Independent personal services (self-employment),
50

• Dependent personal services, or
• Personal services income and noncompensatory

scholarship or fellowship income from the same withholding agent.

A withholding agent that receives Form 8233 from a
nonresident alien individual claiming a tax treaty exemption must review the form, sign to indicate its acceptance,
and forward the form to the IRS within 5 days of its acceptance.
Form W-4. This form is used by a person providing dependent personal services to claim withholding allowances, but not a tax treaty exemption. Nonresident alien individuals are subject to special instructions for completing
the Form W-4. See the discussion under Wages Paid to
Employees, later.
Compensation for independent personal services
(income code 17). “Independent personal services” (a
term commonly used in tax treaties) are personal services
performed by an independent nonresident alien contractor
as contrasted with those performed by an employee. This
category of pay includes payments for professional services, such as fees of an attorney, physician, or accountant
made directly to the person performing the services. It
also includes honoraria paid by colleges and universities
to visiting teachers, lecturers, and researchers.
Pay for independent personal services is subject to
chapter 3 withholding and reporting as follows.
30% rate. You must withhold at the statutory rate of
30% on all payments unless the alien enters into a withholding agreement or receives a final payment exemption
(discussed later).
Withholding agreements. Pay for personal services
of a nonresident alien who is engaged during the tax year
in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business may be wholly
or partially exempted from withholding at the statutory rate
if an agreement has been reached between the Commissioner or his delegate and the alien as to the amount of
withholding required. This agreement will be effective for
payments covered by the agreement that are made after
the agreement is executed by all parties. The alien must
agree to timely file an income tax return for the current tax
year.
Final payment exemption. The final payment of compensation for independent personal services may be
wholly or partially exempt from withholding at the statutory
rate. This exemption applies to the last payment of compensation, other than wages, for personal services rendered in the United States that the alien expects to receive
from any withholding agent during the tax year.
To obtain the final payment exemption, the alien, or the
alien’s agent, must file the forms and provide the information required by the Commissioner or his delegate. This information includes, but is not limited to, the following
items.

• A statement by each withholding agent from whom

amounts of gross income effectively connected with
the conduct of a U.S. trade or business have been
Publication 515 (2026)

received by the alien during the tax year. It must show
the amount of income paid and the amount of tax withheld. The withholding agent must sign the statement
and include a declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury.

• A statement by the withholding agent from whom the

final payment of compensation for personal services
will be received showing the amount of final payment
and the amount that would be withheld if a final payment exemption is not granted. The withholding agent
must sign the statement and include a declaration that
it is made under penalties of perjury.

• A statement by the alien that they do not intend to receive any other amounts of gross income effectively
connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business during the current tax year.

• The amount of tax that has been withheld (or paid) under any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code
or regulations for any income effectively connected
with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business during the
current tax year.

• The amount of any outstanding tax liabilities, including
any interest and penalties, from the current tax year or
prior tax periods.

• The provision of any income tax treaty under which a

partial or complete exemption from withholding may
be claimed, the country of the alien’s residence, and a
statement of sufficient facts to justify an exemption under that treaty.

The alien must give a statement, signed and verified by
a declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury,
that all the information provided is true, and that to their
knowledge no relevant information has been omitted.
If satisfied with the information provided, the Commissioner or his delegate will determine the amount of the alien’s tentative income tax for the tax year on gross income
effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or
business. Ordinary and necessary business expenses
may be taken into account if proved to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner or his delegate.
The Commissioner or his delegate will provide the alien
with a letter to you, the withholding agent, stating the
amount of the final payment of compensation for personal
services that is exempt from withholding, and the amount
that would otherwise be withheld that may be paid to the
alien due to the exemption. The amount of pay exempt
from withholding cannot be more than $5,000. The alien
must give two copies of the letter to you and must also attach a copy of the letter to their income tax return for the
tax year for which the exemption is effective.
Travel expenses. If you pay or reimburse the travel expenses of a nonresident alien, the payments are not reportable to the IRS and are not subject to chapter 3 withholding if the payments are made under an accountable
plan, as described in Regulations section 1.62-2. This
treatment applies only to that part of a payment that represents the payment of travel and lodging expenses and not

Publication 515 (2026)

to that part that represents compensation for independent
personal services.
Tax treaties. Under some tax treaties, pay for independent personal services performed in the United States
is treated as business income and taxed according to the
treaty provisions for business profits.
Under other tax treaties, pay for independent personal
services performed in the United States is exempt from
U.S. income tax only if the independent nonresident alien
contractor performs the services during a period of temporary presence in the United States (usually not more than
183 days) and is a resident of the treaty country.
Independent nonresident alien contractors use Form
8233 to claim an exemption from withholding under a tax
treaty. For more information, see Form 8233, earlier.
Often, you must withhold under the statutory rules on
payments made to a treaty country resident contractor for
services performed in the United States. This is because
the factors on which the treaty exemption is based may
not be determinable until after the close of the tax year.
The contractor must then file a U.S. income tax return
(Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return) to recover any overwithheld tax by providing the IRS
with proof that they are entitled to a treaty exemption.
Tip: Form 8233 should be used to claim a treaty benefit
based on a business profits provision or an independent
personal services provision.

Wages Paid to Employees—Graduated
Withholding
Salaries, wages, bonuses, or any other pay for personal
services (referred to collectively as wages) paid to nonresident alien employees are subject to graduated withholding in the same way as for U.S. citizens and residents if
the wages are effectively connected with the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business.
Note: Any wages paid to a nonresident alien for personal services performed as an employee for an employer
are generally not subject to the 30% withholding if the wages are subject to graduated withholding.
Also, the 30% withholding does not apply to pay for
personal services performed as an employee for an employer if it is effectively connected with the conduct of a
U.S. trade or business and is specifically exempted from
the definition of wages. Chapter 4 withholding does not
apply to these payments. See Pay that is not wages, later.
Special rule for certain agricultural workers. The 30%
withholding does not apply to pay for personal services
performed by a foreign agricultural worker in the United
States on an H-2A visa. However, if the total wages are
$600 or more and the worker does not give you a TIN, you
may need to backup withhold. You may withhold at graduated rates if the employee asks you to by giving you a
completed Form W-4.
Pay for personal services that is not subject to withholding is not subject to reporting on Form 1042-S. If the
51

compensation is more than $600, report it on Form W-2 (if
the employee gave you a TIN) or on Form 1099-NEC,
Nonemployee Compensation (if the employee did not give
you a TIN). See the Instructions for Form 1099-NEC for
more information.
For more information on withholding on foreign agricultural workers, go to IRS.gov and enter “agricultural workers” in the search box.
Employer–employee relationship. For pay for personal
services to qualify as wages, there must be an employer–
employee relationship.
Under the common law rules, every individual who performs services subject to the will and control of an employer, both as to what shall be done and how it shall be
done, is an employee. It does not matter that the employer
allows the employee considerable discretion and freedom
of action, as long as the employer has the legal right to
control both the method and the result of the services.
If an employer–employee relationship exists, it does not
matter what the parties call the relationship. It does not
matter if the employee is called a partner, coadventurer,
agent, or independent contractor. It does not matter how
the pay is measured, how the individual is paid, or what
the payments are called. Nor does it matter whether the
individual works full time or part time.
The existence of the employer–employee relationship
under the usual common law rules will be determined, in
doubtful cases, by an examination of the facts of each
case.
Employee. An employee generally includes any individual who performs services if the relationship between
the individual and the person for whom the services are
performed is the legal relationship of employer and employee. This includes an individual who receives a supplemental unemployment pay benefit that is treated as wages.
No distinction is made between classes of employees. Superintendents, managers, and other supervisory
personnel are employees. In most cases, an officer of a
corporation is an employee, but a director acting in this capacity is not. An officer who does not perform any services, or only minor services, and neither receives nor is
entitled to receive any pay is not considered an employee.

foreign corporation not engaged in trade or business
in the United States (including Puerto Rico as if a part
of the United States), and

• An employer includes any person who has control of

the payment of wages for services that are performed
for another person who does not have that control.

For example, if a trust pays wages, such as certain
types of pensions, supplemental unemployment pay, or
retired pay, and the person for whom the services were
performed has no legal control over the payment of the
wages, the trust is the employer.
These special definitions have no effect upon the relationship between an alien employee and the actual employer when determining whether the pay received is considered to be wages.
If an employer–employee relationship exists, the employer ordinarily must withhold the income tax from wage
payments by using the percentage method or wage
bracket tables as shown in Pub. 15-T.
Pay that is not wages. Employment for which the pay is
not considered wages (for graduated income tax withholding) includes, but is not limited to, the following items.

• Agricultural labor if the total cash wages paid to an in-

dividual worker during the year is less than $150 and
the total paid to all workers during the year is less than
$2,500. But even if the total amount paid to all workers
is $2,500 or more, wages of less than $150 per year
paid to a worker are not subject to income tax withholding if certain conditions are met. For more on
these conditions, go to IRS.gov/Pub15.

• Services of a household nature performed in or about

the private home of an employer, or in or about the
clubrooms or house of a local college club, fraternity,
or sorority. A local college club, fraternity, or sorority
does not include an alumni club or chapter and may
not be operated primarily as a business enterprise.
Examples of these services include those performed
as a cook, janitor, housekeeper, governess, gardener,
or houseparent.

• Certain services performed outside the course of the

employer’s trade or business for which cash payment
is less than $50 for the calendar quarter.

Employer. An employer is any person or organization
for whom an individual performs or has performed any
service, of whatever nature, as an employee. The term
“employer” includes not only individuals and organizations
in a trade or business, but organizations exempt from income tax, such as religious and charitable organizations,
educational institutions, clubs, social organizations, and
societies. It also includes the governments of the United
States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, as well
as their agencies, instrumentalities, and political subdivisions.
Two special definitions of employer that may have considerable application to nonresident aliens are:

• Services performed as an employee of a foreign gov-

• An employer includes any person paying wages for a

• Services performed by a duly ordained, commis-

nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership, or

52

ernment, without regard to citizenship, residence, or
where services are performed. These include services
performed by ambassadors, other diplomatic and consular officers and employees, and nondiplomatic representatives. They do not include services for a U.S.
or Puerto Rican corporation owned by a foreign government.

• Services performed within or outside the United

States by an employee or officer (regardless of citizenship or residence) of an international organization designated under the International Organizations Immunities Act.
sioned, or licensed minister of a church, but only if
Publication 515 (2026)

performed in the exercise of the ministry and not as an
employee of the United States, a U.S. territory, or a
foreign government, or any of their political subdivisions. These also include services performed by a
member of a religious order in carrying out duties required by that order.

• Tips paid to an employee if they are paid in any me-

dium other than cash or, if in cash, they amount to less
than $20 in any calendar month in the course of employment.

Services performed outside the United States.
Compensation paid to a nonresident alien (other than a
resident of Puerto Rico, discussed later) for services performed outside the United States is not considered wages
and is not subject to withholding.
Special instructions for Form W-4. A nonresident
alien subject to wage withholding must give the employer
a completed Form W-4 to enable the employer to figure
how much income tax to withhold.
In completing Form W-4, nonresident aliens should use
the specific instructions in Notice 1392 instead of the instructions on Form W-4.
Nonresident alien employees are not required to request an additional withholding amount, but they can
choose to have an additional amount withheld.
Caution: A nonresident alien cannot claim exemption
from withholding on Form W-4. Use Form 8233 to claim a
tax treaty exemption from withholding. See Form 8233,
earlier.
Determining amount to withhold. Employers are required to add an amount to the wages of a nonresident
alien employee solely for the purpose of calculating income tax withholding. The specific amounts depend on
the payroll period. These amounts can be found in Withholding Adjustment for Nonresident Alien Employees in
the Introduction of Pub. 15-T. This adjustment does not
apply to students and business apprentices from India.
Caution: Do not include the additional amount on the
employee’s Form W-2.
Reporting requirements for wages and withheld
taxes paid to nonresident aliens. The employer must
report the amount of wages and deposits of withheld income and social security and Medicare taxes by filing
Form 941. Household employers should see Pub. 926,
Household Employer’s Tax Guide, for information on reporting and paying employment taxes on wages paid to
household employees.
Form W-2. The employer must also report on Form
W-2 the wages subject to chapter 3 withholding and the
withheld taxes. You must give copies of this form to the
employee. If the employee submits Form 8233 to claim exemption from withholding under a tax treaty, the wages are
reported on Form 1042-S and not in box 1 of Form W-2.
Wages exempt under a tax treaty may still be reported in

Publication 515 (2026)

the state and local wages boxes of Form W-2 if such wages are subject to state and local taxation. For more information, see the instructions for these forms.
Trust fund recovery penalty. If you are a person responsible for withholding, accounting for, or depositing or
paying employment taxes, and willfully fail to do so, you
can be held liable for a penalty equal to the full amount of
the unpaid trust fund tax, plus interest. A responsible person for this purpose can be an officer of a corporation, a
partner, a sole proprietor, or an employee of any form of
business. A trustee or agent with authority over the funds
of the business can also be held responsible for the penalty.
“Willfully” in this case means voluntarily, consciously,
and intentionally. You are acting willfully if you pay other
expenses of the business instead of the withholding taxes.
Social security and Medicare taxes. In most cases, the
employer must also withhold Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax and file Form 941. In certain cases,
wages paid to students and railroad and agricultural workers are exempt from FICA tax. Wages paid to nonresident
alien students, teachers, researchers, trainees, and other
nonresident aliens in “F-1,” “J-1,”“ M-1,” or “Q” nonimmigrant status are not subject to FICA. Go to IRS.gov/
Pub15T for the rules on withholding.
In addition to withholding Medicare tax at 1.45%, you
must withhold a 0.9% Additional Medicare Tax from wages you pay in excess of $200,000 in a calendar year. Go
to IRS.gov/Pub15 for more information.
Federal unemployment tax (FUTA). The employer must
pay FUTA tax and file Form 940, Employer’s Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return. Only the employer
pays this tax; it is not deducted from the employee’s wages. In certain cases, wages paid to students and railroad
and agricultural workers are exempt from FUTA tax. For
more information, see the Instructions for Form 940.
Wages paid to nonresident alien students, teachers, researchers, trainees, and other nonresident aliens in “F-1,”
“J-1,” “M-1,” or “Q” nonimmigrant status are not subject to
FUTA tax.
Compensation for dependent personal services (income code 18). Dependent personal services are personal services performed in the United States by a nonresident alien individual as an employee rather than as an
independent contractor.
Pay for dependent personal services is subject to chapter 3 withholding and reporting as follows.
Graduated rates. Ordinarily, you must withhold on pay
(wages) for dependent personal services using graduated
rates. The nonresident alien must complete Form W-4, as
discussed earlier under Special instructions for Form W-4,
and you must report wages and income tax withheld on
Form W-2. However, you do not have to withhold if any of
the following four exceptions applies.
Exception 1. Compensation paid for labor or personal
services performed in the United States is deemed not to
53

be income from sources within the United States and is
exempt from U.S. income tax if:

United States and Canada or the boundary between
the United States and Mexico.

1. The labor or services are performed by a nonresident
alien temporarily present in the United States for a period or periods not exceeding a total of 90 days during
the tax year;

To qualify for the exemption from withholding during a
tax year, a Canadian or Mexican resident must give the
employer a statement with the employee’s name, address,
and identification number, and certifying that the resident:

2. The total pay does not exceed $3,000; and
3. The pay is for labor or services performed as an employee of, or under a contract with:
a. A nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership,
or foreign corporation that is not engaged in a
trade or business in the United States; or
b. A U.S. citizen or resident alien individual, a domestic partnership, or a domestic corporation, if
the labor or services are performed for an office or
place of business maintained in a foreign country
or in a territory of the United States by this individual, partnership, or corporation.
If the total pay is more than $3,000, the entire amount is
income from sources in the United States and is subject to
U.S. tax.
Also, compensation paid for labor or services performed in the United States by a nonresident alien in connection with the individual’s temporary presence in the
United States as a regular member of the crew of a foreign
vessel engaged in transportation between the United
States and a foreign country or a U.S. territory is not income from sources within the United States.
Exception 2. Compensation paid by a foreign employer to a nonresident alien for the period the alien is
temporarily present in the United States on an “F,” “J,” or
“Q” visa is exempt from U.S. income tax. For this purpose,
a foreign employer means:

• A nonresident alien individual, foreign partnership, or
foreign corporation; or

• An office or place of business maintained in a foreign

country or in a U.S. territory by a domestic corporation, a domestic partnership, or an individual U.S. citizen or resident.

You can exempt the payment from withholding if you
can reliably associate the payment with a Form W-8BEN
containing the TIN of the payee.
Exception 3. Compensation paid to certain residents
of Canada or Mexico who enter or leave the United States
at frequent intervals is not subject to withholding. These
aliens must either:

• Perform duties in transportation services (such as a

railroad, bus, truck, ferry, steamboat, aircraft, or other
type) between the United States and Canada or Mexico; or

• Perform duties connected with an international

project, relating to the construction, maintenance, or
operation of a waterway, viaduct, dam, or bridge
crossed by, or crossing, the boundary between the

54

• Is not a U.S. citizen or resident;
• Is a resident of Canada or Mexico, whichever applies;
and

• Expects to perform the described duties during the tax
year in question.

The statement can be in any form, but it must be dated
and signed by the employee and must include a written
declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury.
Canadian and Mexican residents employed entirely within the United States. Neither the transportation service exception nor the international projects exception applies to the pay of a resident of Canada or Mexico
who is employed entirely within the United States and who
commutes from a home in Canada or Mexico to work in
the United States. If an individual works at a fixed point or
points in the United States (such as a factory, store, office,
or designated area or areas), the wages for services performed as an employee for an employer are subject to
graduated withholding.
Exception 4. Compensation paid for services performed in Puerto Rico by a nonresident alien who is a resident of Puerto Rico for an employer (other than the United
States or one of its agencies) is not subject to withholding.
Compensation paid for either of the following types of
services is not subject to withholding if the alien does not
expect to be a resident of Puerto Rico during the entire tax
year.

• Services performed outside the United States but not

in Puerto Rico by a nonresident alien who is a resident
of Puerto Rico for an employer other than the United
States or one of its agencies.

• Services performed outside the United States by a

nonresident alien who is a resident of Puerto Rico, as
an employee of the United States or any of its agencies.

To qualify for the exemption from withholding for any tax
year, the employee must give the employer a statement
showing the employee’s name and address and certifying
that the employee:

• Is not a citizen or resident of the United States, and
• Is a resident of Puerto Rico who does not expect to be
a resident for that entire tax year.

The statement must be signed and dated by the employee and contain a written declaration that it is made under penalties of perjury.
Tax treaties. Pay for dependent personal services under some tax treaties is exempt from U.S. income tax only
if both the employer and the employee are treaty country
residents and the nonresident alien employee performs
Publication 515 (2026)

the services while temporarily living in the United States
(usually for not more than 183 days). Other treaties provide for exemption from U.S. tax on pay for dependent
personal services if the employer is any foreign resident
and the employee is a treaty country resident and the nonresident alien employee performs the services while temporarily in the United States. See Tax Treaties, later, for information about treaty benefits.
Compensation for teaching (income code 19). This
category is given a separate income code number because some tax treaties exempt a teacher from tax for a
limited number of years. Pay for teaching means payments to a nonresident alien professor, teacher, or researcher by a U.S. university or other accredited educational institution for teaching or research work at the
institution.
Graduated rates. Graduated withholding of income
tax usually applies to all wages, salaries, and other pay for
teaching and research paid by a U.S. educational institution during the period the nonresident alien is teaching or
performing research at the institution.
Social security and Medicare taxes. A nonresident
alien temporarily in the United States on an “F-1,” “J-1,”
“M-1,” or “Q-1” visa is not subject to social security and
Medicare taxes on pay for services performed to carry out
the purpose for which the alien was admitted to the United
States. Social security and Medicare taxes should not be
withheld or paid on this amount.
Example. A nonresident alien is issued a visa to teach
for a university. While in the United States, they take a
part-time job working for a chemical company. The wages
earned while teaching at the university are exempt from
social security and Medicare taxes. The wages earned at
the chemical company are subject to social security and
Medicare taxes.
If an alien is considered a resident alien, as discussed
earlier, that pay is subject to social security and Medicare
taxes even though the alien is still in one of the nonimmigrant statuses mentioned above. This rule also applies to
FUTA (unemployment) taxes paid by the employer. Teachers, researchers, and other employees temporarily
present in the United States on other nonimmigrant visas
or in refugee or asylee immigration statuses are fully liable
for social security and Medicare taxes unless an exemption applies from one of the totalization agreements in
force between the United States and several other nations.
Note: The Social Security Administration (SSA) publishes the complete texts and explanatory pamphlets of
the totalization agreements, which are available by calling
410-965-7306 or by going to SSA.gov/international/
totalization_agreements.html
Tax treaties. Under most tax treaties, pay for teaching
or research is exempt from U.S. income tax and from withholding for a specified period of time when paid to a professor, teacher, or researcher who was a resident of the
treaty country immediately prior to entry into the United
Publication 515 (2026)

States and who is not a citizen of the United States. The
U.S. educational institution paying the compensation must
report the amount of compensation paid each year that is
exempt from tax under a tax treaty on Form 1042-S. See
Tax Treaties, later, for information about treaty benefits.
The employer should also report the compensation in the
state and local wages boxes of Form W-2 if the wages are
subject to state and local taxes, or in the social security
and Medicare wages boxes of Form W-2 if the wages are
subject to social security and Medicare taxes.
Claimants must give you either Form W-8BEN or Form
8233, as applicable, to obtain these treaty benefits.
Compensation during studying and training (income
code 20). This category refers to pay (as contrasted with
remittances, allowances, or other forms of scholarships or
fellowship grants—see Scholarships and Fellowship
Grants Subject to Chapter 3 Withholding, earlier) for personal services performed while a nonresident alien is temporarily in the United States as a student, trainee, or apprentice, or while acquiring technical, professional, or
business experience.
Graduated rates. Wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to a nonresident alien student, trainee, or apprentice for labor or personal services performed in the
United States are subject to graduated withholding.
Social security and Medicare taxes. A nonresident
alien temporarily in the United States on an “F-1,” “J-1,”
“M-1,” or “Q-1” visa is not subject to social security and
Medicare taxes on pay for services performed to carry out
the purpose for which the alien was admitted to the United
States. Social security and Medicare taxes should not be
withheld or paid on this amount. This exemption from social security and Medicare taxes also applies to employment performed under Curricular Practical Training (CPT)
and Optional Practical Training (OPT), on or off campus,
by foreign students in “F-1,” “J-1,” “M-1,” or “Q” status as
long as the employment is authorized by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Example. A nonresident alien is admitted to the United States to study surveying. As part of the course, they
apprentice to a surveyor. The nonresident alien also works
part-time at a restaurant to supplement their income. The
wages earned as an apprentice are not subject to social
security and Medicare taxes. The wages and tips earned
at the restaurant are subject to social security and Medicare taxes.
If an alien is considered a resident alien, as discussed
earlier, that pay is subject to social security and Medicare
taxes even though the alien is still in one of the nonimmigrant statuses mentioned above. This rule also applies to
FUTA (unemployment) taxes paid by the employer.
Any student who is enrolled and regularly attending
classes at a school may be exempt from social security,
Medicare, and FUTA taxes on pay for services performed
for that school. For more information on employer’s taxes,
go to IRS.gov/Pub15.
Tax treaties. Certain tax treaties provide a limited exemption from U.S. income tax and from withholding on
55

compensation paid to nonresident alien students or trainees during training in the United States for a limited period. In addition, some treaties provide an exemption from
tax and withholding for compensation paid by the U.S.
Government or its contractor to a nonresident alien student or trainee who is temporarily present in the United
States as a participant in a program sponsored by the U.S.
Government. See Tax Treaties, later, for information about
treaty benefits. However, a withholding agent who is a
U.S. resident, a U.S. Government agency, or its contractor
must report the amount of pay on Form 1042-S.
Claimants must give you either Form W-8BEN or Form
8233, as applicable, to obtain these treaty benefits.

formed in the United States is exempt from U.S. income
tax if the artist or athlete derives receipts for the tax year
concerned, including expenses reimbursed to them or
borne on their behalf, not in excess of $10,000, or in more
recent treaties, $20,000. See Tax Treaties, later, for information about treaty benefits.
Employees and independent contractors may claim an
exemption from withholding under a tax treaty by filing
Form 8233. Often, however, you will have to withhold at
the statutory rates on the total payments to the entertainer
or athlete. This is because the exemption may be based
upon factors that cannot be determined until after the end
of the year.

Artists and Athletes (Income Codes
42 and 43)

Other Income

Because many tax treaties contain a provision for pay to
artists and athletes, a separate category is assigned these
payments for chapter 3 withholding purposes. This category includes payments made for performances by public
entertainers (such as theater, motion picture, radio, or television artists, or musicians) or athletes.
Use income code 42 to report payments to nonresident
alien athletes and entertainers (NRAAEs) who have not
signed a central withholding agreement (CWA), discussed
later. Use income code 43 to report payments to artists
and athletes who have signed a CWA.
Income code 42, earnings as an artist or athlete—no
central withholding agreement. You must withhold tax
at a 30% rate on payments to artists and athletes for services performed as independent contractors. See Pay for
independent personal services, earlier, for more information. You must withhold tax at graduated rates on payments to artists and athletes for services performed as
employees. See Pay for dependent personal services,
earlier, for more information. However, in any situation
where the nature of the relationship between the payer of
the income and the artist or athlete is not ascertainable,
you should withhold at a rate of 30%.
Income code 43, earnings as an artist or athlete—central withholding agreement. NRAAEs who
perform or participate in events in the United States can
request a CWA for a lower rate of withholding. A CWA is
an agreement entered into by the athlete or entertainer, a
designated withholding agent, and the IRS. Under no circumstances will a CWA reduce taxes withheld to less than
the anticipated amount of income tax liability.
The IRS has temporarily waived the income requirement for which form to use when applying for a CWA.
Form 13930-A is currently unavailable. While the waiver is
in effect, individuals with income below $10,000 can apply
for a CWA using Form 13930. For more information on
how to apply for a CWA, see Form 13930.
For more information on the CWA program, go to
IRS.gov/CWA.
Tax treaties. Under many tax treaties, compensation
paid to public entertainers or athletes for services per56

For the discussion of income codes 24, 25, and 26, see
U.S. Real Property Interest, later. For the discussion of income code 27, see Publicly Traded Partnership Distributions, later.
Gambling winnings (income code 28). In general,
nonresident aliens are subject to chapter 3 withholding at
30% on the gross proceeds from gambling won in the United States if that income is not effectively connected with
a U.S. trade or business and is not exempted by treaty.
The tax withheld and winnings are reportable on Forms
1042 and 1042-S. Chapter 4 withholding does not apply to
these proceeds.
No tax is imposed on nonbusiness gambling income a
nonresident alien wins playing blackjack, baccarat, craps,
roulette, or big-6 wheel in the United States. A Form
W-8BEN is not required to obtain the exemption from withholding, but a Form W-8BEN may be required for purposes of Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding. Gambling income that is not subject to chapter 3 withholding is
not subject to reporting on Form 1042-S.
Nonresident aliens are taxed at graduated rates on net
gambling income won in the United States that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business.
Tax treaties. Gambling income of residents (as defined by treaty) of the following foreign countries is not taxable by the United States: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United
Kingdom.
Gambling income of residents of Malta is taxed at 10%.
Claimants must give you a Form W-8BEN (with a U.S.
or foreign TIN) to claim treaty benefits on gambling income that is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or
business. See U.S. or Foreign TINs, later, for when you
can accept a Form W-8BEN without a TIN.
The provisions of the Hungary and Russia treaties exempting taxation on gambling winnings in the United
States are no longer in operation. As a result, gambling
winnings are taxable and subject to 30% withholding as of
August 16, 2024, for Russia and January 1, 2024, for Hungary.
Publication 515 (2026)

Transportation income. U.S. source gross transportation income (USSGTI), as defined in section 887, is not
subject to 30% gross withholding tax, and chapter 4 withholding does not apply to this income. Transportation income is income from the use of a vessel or aircraft,
whether owned, hired, or leased, or from the performance
of services directly related to the use of a vessel or aircraft. U.S. source gross transportation income includes
50% of all transportation income from transportation that
either begins or ends in the United States. USSGTI does
not include transportation income of a foreign corporation
taxable in a U.S. territory. The recipient of USSGTI must
pay tax on it annually at the rate of 4% on Section I of
Form 1120-F, unless the income is effectively connected
with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business and is reportable on Section II of Form 1120-F. Special rules apply to
determine if a foreign corporation’s USSGTI is effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or business.
Canadian truck and rail income. Under Article VIII
(Transportation) of the U.S.–Canada treaty, any U.S.
source income derived by a Canadian company engaged
in the operation of trucks or a railway as a common carrier
or contract carrier, and attributable to the transportation of
property between Canada and the United States, is exempt from tax in the United States, provided the company
is otherwise eligible for treaty benefits. Payments for the
use of trucks (including trailers) or railway rolling stock, or
from the use, maintenance, or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the transport of containers) used to transport property between Canada and
the United States are also exempt from U.S. tax, provided
the company is otherwise eligible for treaty benefits.
Canadian companies must file Form 1120-F and Form
8833 to claim an exemption from tax for profits from their
operating income. Canadian corporations are subject to
chapter 3 withholding on rental payments for the use of
such equipment in the United States and may claim an exemption on Form W-8BEN-E.
Foreign freight charges or rental of equipment
used outside the United States. Payments for transportation of property, whether by ship, air, or truck, solely between points outside the United States or rental of tangible property in connection with transportation solely for
use between points outside the United States is not U.S.
source income and not subject to chapter 3 withholding.
Payments to certain expatriates. Certain payments to
nonresident aliens who are covered expatriates under
section 877A(g)(1) are subject to withholding at 30%. In
general, nonresident aliens are covered expatriates if they
were U.S. citizens or long-term residents who renounced
their citizenship or ceased to be long-term residents for
U.S. tax purposes after June 16, 2008, and satisfied other
tests for average annual net income tax or net worth. For
more information on the definition of covered expatriates,
see the Instructions for Form 8854, Initial and Annual Expatriation Information Statement.
A covered expatriate should have provided you with
Form W-8CE notifying you of their covered expatriate status and the fact that they may be subject to special tax
Publication 515 (2026)

rules with respect to certain items. For more information,
see the Instructions for Form W-8CE.
Eligible deferred compensation items (income
code 38). In general, you must withhold tax at a 30% rate
on any payment of an eligible deferred compensation item
paid to a covered expatriate. The amount subject to tax is
the amount of the payment that would have been included
in the nonresident alien’s U.S. gross income if they had
continued to be taxed as a U.S. citizen or resident.
Distributions from a nongrantor trust (income
code 39). In general, you must withhold tax at a 30% rate
on any direct or indirect distribution from a nongrantor
trust. The amount subject to tax is the part of the distribution that would have been included in the nonresident alien’s U.S. gross income if they had continued to be taxed
as a U.S. citizen or resident. If the nonresident alien was
not a beneficiary of the nongrantor trust on the day before
they gave up their U.S. citizenship or long-term residence,
you do not have to withhold tax. See section 7 of Notice
2009-85, 2009-45 I.R.B. 598, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2009-45_IRB#NOT-2009-85.
Guarantee of indebtedness (income code 41). An
amount paid to a foreign payee for the provision of a guarantee of indebtedness issued after September 27, 2010,
may be subject to chapter 3 withholding. The amounts
must be paid by one of the following.
1. A noncorporate U.S. resident.
2. A domestic corporation.
3. Any foreign person if the amount paid is connected
with income that is effectively connected, or treated
as effectively connected, with a U.S. trade or business.
An indirect payment includes a payment by a foreign
bank to a foreign corporation for the foreign corporation’s
guarantee of indebtedness owed to the foreign bank by
the foreign corporation’s domestic subsidiary, where the
cost of the guarantee fee is passed on to the domestic
subsidiary through additional interest charged on the indebtedness.
The amounts described above for a guarantee of indebtedness are withholdable payments, such that chapter 4 withholding may apply absent an exclusion from withholding under chapter 4.
Other income (income code 23). Use this category to
report U.S. source FDAP income that is not reportable under any of the other income categories. Examples of income that may be reportable under this category are commissions, insurance proceeds, patronage distributions,
prizes, and racing purses.
As discussed earlier under Amounts Subject to Chapter 3 Withholding, every kind of FDAP income from U.S.
sources that is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business is subject to chapter 3 withholding unless the
income is specifically exempt under the Internal Revenue
Code or a tax treaty. You must generally withhold at the
30% rate on this income. As a payment of U.S. source
57

FDAP is generally a withholdable payment, you should review Regulations section 1.1473-1(a) (definition of withholdable payment) to determine if the payment is excluded from the definition of a withholdable payment.

Foreign Governments and
Certain Other Foreign
Organizations
Certain investment income earned by a foreign government is not included in the gross income of the foreign
government and is not subject to chapter 3 withholding.
The term “foreign government” means an integral part of a
foreign sovereign or a controlled entity of a foreign sovereign. See Temporary Regulations section 1.892-2T. “Investment income” means income from investments in the
United States in stocks, bonds, or other domestic securities, financial instruments held in the execution of governmental financial or monetary policy, and interest on money
deposited by a foreign government in banks in the United
States. A foreign government must provide a Form
W-8EXP or, in the case of a payment made outside the
United States to an offshore account, documentary evidence to obtain this exemption. Investment income paid to
a foreign government is subject to reporting on Form
1042-S.
The following types of income received by a foreign
government are subject to chapter 3 withholding.
1. Income (including investment income) received from
the conduct of a commercial activity or from sources
other than those stated above.
2. Income received from a controlled commercial entity
(including gain from the disposition of any interest in a
controlled commercial entity) and income received by
a controlled commercial entity.
If the foreign government is a partner in a partnership carrying on a trade or business in the United
States, the ECTI allocable to the foreign government
is considered derived from a commercial activity and
is subject to withholding under section 1446.
3. Gain derived from the disposition of a USRPI. Withholding on these gains is discussed later under U.S.
real property interest.
For chapter 4 purposes, payments to a foreign government (other than earnings inuring to the benefit of a private person) are not payments to which chapter 4 withholding applies unless the payment is made to a
controlled entity of the foreign government that is engaged
in a commercial financial activity. See Regulations section
1.1471-6(h) for a description of a commercial financial activity. See Regulations section 1.1471-3(d)(9) for the documentation required to establish an entity’s chapter 4 status as a foreign government. Similar rules apply for
chapter 4 purposes to a payment to a foreign central bank
of issue.
58

A government of a U.S. territory is exempt from U.S. tax
on all U.S. source income. This income is not subject to
chapter 3 withholding, and chapter 4 withholding does not
apply to income paid to a government of a U.S. territory.
See Regulations section 1.1471-3(d)(9) for the documentation required to establish an entity’s chapter 4 status as
a government of a U.S. territory. These governments
should use Form W-8EXP to claim this exemption for both
chapters 3 and 4 purposes (as required).
International organizations. International organizations
are exempt from U.S. tax on all U.S. source income. Income paid to an international organization (within the
meaning of section 7701(a)(18)) is not subject to chapter 3 withholding. International organizations are not required to provide a Form W-8 or documentary evidence to
receive the exemption if the name of the payee is one that
is designated as an international organization by executive
order.
Payments made to an international organization, as defined for chapter 4 purposes, are not payments to which
chapter 4 withholding applies. An “international organization” for purposes of chapter 4 means any entity described
in section 7701(a)(18). The term also includes any intergovernmental or supranational organization that is comprised primarily of foreign governments, that is recognized
as an intergovernmental or supranational organization under certain foreign laws, or that has in effect a headquarters agreement with a foreign government, and whose income does not inure to the benefit of private persons. See
Regulations section 1.1471-3(d)(9) for the documentation
required to establish an entity’s chapter 4 status as an international organization.
Foreign tax-exempt organizations. A foreign organization that is a tax-exempt organization under section 501(c)
is not subject to a withholding tax on amounts that are not
income includible under section 512 as unrelated business taxable income. In addition, withholdable payments
made to a tax-exempt organization under section 501(c)
are not payments to which chapter 4 withholding applies.
However, if a foreign organization is a foreign private
foundation, it is subject to a 4% withholding tax on all U.S.
source investment income. For a foreign tax-exempt organization to claim an exemption from withholding under
chapter 3 or 4 because of its tax-exempt status under section 501(c), or to claim withholding at a 4% rate, it must
provide you with a Form W-8EXP. However, if a foreign organization is claiming an exemption from withholding under an income tax treaty, or the income is unrelated business taxable income, the organization must provide a
Form W-8BEN-E or W-8ECI. Income paid to foreign
tax-exempt organizations is subject to reporting on Form
1042-S. If the organization is a partner in a partnership
carrying on a trade or business in the United States, the
ECTI allocable to the organization is subject to withholding
under section 1446.
Foreign financial institutions (FFIs). For payments
made to a reporting Model 1 FFI or reporting Model 2 FFI,
see the applicable IGA for definitions of entities described
under this heading. You may generally rely on
Publication 515 (2026)

documentation provided by such an FFI to treat an entity
as described under this heading (included under the class
of a nonreporting IGA FFI). See the Instructions for Form
W-8BEN-E.

U.S. or Foreign TINs
As the withholding agent, in many cases you must request
that the payee provide you with its U.S. TIN. You must in
such a case include the payee’s TIN on forms, statements,
and other tax documents. The payee’s TIN may be any of
the following.

• An individual may have a social security number

(SSN). If the individual does not have and is eligible
for an SSN, go to SSA.gov/ssnumber/ for more information. The SSA will tell the individual if they are eligible to get an SSN.

• An individual may have an IRS individual taxpayer

identification number (ITIN). If the individual does not
have and is not eligible for an SSN, they must apply
for an ITIN by using Form W-7.

• Any person other than an individual, and any individ-

ual who is an employer or who is engaged in a U.S.
trade or business as a sole proprietor, must have an
employer identification number (EIN). If you don't have
an EIN, you may apply for one online by going to
IRS.gov/EIN. If you are outside the United States, you
may also apply for an EIN by calling 267-941-1099
(not a toll-free number). You may also apply for an EIN
by faxing or mailing Form SS-4 to the IRS.

Caution: Under certain circumstances, an FI may be required to get a GIIN for purposes of chapter 4. See Global
Intermediary Identification Numbers, later. See the
Instructions for Form 8957 for information on whether a
GIIN is needed.
A U.S. or foreign TIN (as applicable) must generally be
on a withholding certificate if the beneficial owner is claiming any of the following.

• WT.
• An organization claiming an exemption or reduced

rate of withholding based solely on a claim of tax-exempt status under section 501(c) or private foundation
status (unless only the 4% tax under section 4948(a)
applies to the private foundation).

• U.S. branch of a foreign person treated as a U.S. per-

son (see Regulations section 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv)), and
a U.S. branch of an FFI acting as an intermediary that
is not treated as a U.S person.

• U.S. person.
Exceptions to U.S. TIN requirement. A foreign person
does not have to provide a U.S. TIN to claim a reduced
rate of withholding under a tax treaty if the requirements
for the following exceptions are met. Instead of requesting
a U.S. TIN from a foreign payee, you may request a foreign TIN issued by the payee’s country of residence except when the payee is a nonresident alien individual
claiming an exemption from withholding on Form 8233.

• Income from marketable securities (discussed earlier
under Beneficial Owners).

• Unexpected payment to an individual in the case of a

payment made by a U.S. FI to an account maintained
at a U.S. office (discussed next).

Unexpected payment. A Form W-8BEN or a Form
8233 provided by a nonresident alien to get treaty benefits
does not need a U.S. TIN if you, the withholding agent,
meet all the following requirements.

• You are an acceptance agent.
• You can request an ITIN for a payee on an expedited
basis.

• You are required to make an unexpected payment to
the nonresident alien.

• You cannot get the ITIN because the IRS is not issuing
ITINs at the time you make the payment or at any earlier time after you know you have to make the payment.

• Tax treaty benefits (see Exceptions to U.S. TIN re-

• You cannot reasonably delay making the unexpected

• Income is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or

• You submit a completed Form W-7 for the payee, with

quirement, later).

business.

• Exemption for certain annuities (see Pensions, Annuities, and Alimony, earlier).

• Exemption based on exempt organization or private
foundation status.

A foreign TIN may also be required for certain account
holders (see Foreign TIN requirement for account holders,
later). In addition, a U.S. TIN must be on a withholding
certificate from a person claiming to be any of the following.

• QI (including when acting as a QDD).
• QSL.
• WP.
Publication 515 (2026)

payment.

a certification that you have reviewed the required
documentation and have no actual knowledge or reason to know that the documentation is not complete or
accurate, to the IRS during the first business day after
you made the payment.

An acceptance agent is a person who, under a written
agreement with the IRS, is authorized to help alien individuals and other foreign persons get ITINs or EINs. For information on the application procedures for becoming an
acceptance agent, go to IRS.gov/AAPC.
Note: All acceptance agents will be required to adhere
to new quality standards established and monitored by the
IRS.
59

A payment is unexpected if you or the beneficial owner
could not have reasonably anticipated the payment during
a time when an ITIN could be obtained. This could be due
to the nature of the payment or the circumstances in which
the payment is made. A payment is not considered unexpected solely because the amount of the payment is not
fixed.
Example. Mary, a citizen and resident of Ireland, visits
the United States and wins $5,000 playing a slot machine
in a casino. Under the treaty with Ireland, the winnings are
not subject to U.S. tax. Mary claims the treaty benefits by
providing a Form W-8BEN to the casino upon winning at
the slot machine. However, she does not have an ITIN or
foreign TIN. The casino is an acceptance agent that can
request an ITIN on an expedited basis.
Situation 1. Assume that Mary won the money on Sunday. Since the IRS does not issue ITINs on Sunday, the
casino can pay $5,000 to Mary without withholding U.S.
tax. The casino must, on the following Monday, fax a completed Form W-7 for Mary, including the required certification, to the IRS for an expedited ITIN.
Situation 2. Assume that Mary won the money on Monday. To pay the winnings without withholding U.S. tax, the
casino must apply for and get an ITIN for Mary because
an expedited ITIN is available from the IRS at the time of
the payment.
Foreign TIN requirement for account holders. If you
are a U.S. office or branch of a depository institution, custodial institution, investment entity, or specified insurance
company (each as defined in Regulations section
1.1471-5(e)) documenting an account holder (as defined
in Regulations section 1.1471-5(a)(3)) of an account that
is a financial account (as defined in Regulations section
1.1471-5(b)), you must obtain the account holder’s TIN for
its jurisdiction of tax residence (foreign TIN) on a Form
W-8 that is a beneficial owner withholding certificate in order for the form to not be invalid for a payment of U.S.
source income reportable on Form 1042-S, unless:

• The account holder is a resident of a jurisdiction that is
not listed in section 3 of Revenue Procedure 2021-32,
2021-42 I.R.B. 465, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2021-42_IRB#REV-PROC-2021-32, which may be
further updated in future published guidance;

• The account holder is a resident in a jurisdiction that

has been identified by the IRS on a list of jurisdictions
that do not issue foreign TINs. See IRS.gov/
NoForeignTIN;

• The account holder is a government, international or-

ganization, foreign central bank of issue, or resident of
a U.S. territory; or

• The account holder obtains a reasonable explanation

for why the account holder has not been issued a foreign TIN, including by checking the applicable box on
the applicable Form W-8 indicating that the account
holder is not legally required to obtain an FTIN from
the account holder’s jurisdiction of residence (including if the jurisdiction does not issue TINs).

60

A reasonable explanation that an account holder does
not have a foreign TIN must address why the account
holder was not issued a foreign TIN to the extent provided
in the instructions for the applicable Form W-8. If an account holder provides an explanation other than the one
described in the instructions for the applicable Form W-8,
you must determine whether the explanation is reasonable.

Global Intermediary Identification
Numbers (GIINs)
If you make a withholdable payment to an entity claiming
certain chapter 4 statuses, you may be required to obtain
and verify the entity’s GIIN against the published IRS FFI
list within 90 days to rely on such a claim. See GIIN Verification under Standards of Knowledge for Purposes of
Chapter 4, earlier, for which chapter 4 statuses require a
GIIN.

Depositing Withheld Taxes
This section discusses the rules for depositing income tax
withheld on FDAP income, including tax withheld pursuant
to chapter 4. The deposit rules discussed here do not apply to the following items.

• Taxes on pay subject to graduated withholding, as discussed earlier. Go to IRS.gov/Form941 for the deposit
rules.

• Tax withheld on pensions and annuities subject to

graduated withholding or the 10% tax on nonperiodic
distributions. Go to IRS.gov/Form945 for the deposit
rules.

• Tax withheld on a foreign partner’s allocable share of

ECTI of a partnership, other than a PTP. See Partnership Withholding on ECTI, later.

• Tax withheld on dispositions of USRPI by foreign persons. See U.S. Real Property Interest, later.

• Taxes on household employees. See Schedule H

(Form 1040) to report social security and Medicare
taxes, and any income tax withheld, on wages paid to
a nonresident alien household employee.

When Deposits Are Required
A deposit required for any period occurring in 1 calendar
year must be made separately from a deposit for any period occurring in another calendar year. A deposit of this
tax must be made separately from a deposit of any other
type of tax, but you need not identify whether the deposit
is of tax withheld under chapter 3 or 4.
The amount of tax you are required to withhold determines the frequency of your deposits. For more information, see Deposit Requirements in the Instructions for
Form 1042.

Publication 515 (2026)

Escrow in lieu of deposit. Under certain circumstances,
a withholding agent may be permitted to set aside a withheld amount in escrow rather than depositing the tax. A
participating FFI that withholds tax on a withholdable payment not otherwise subject to chapter 3 withholding or
backup withholding under section 3406 made to a recalcitrant account holder of a dormant account may, in lieu of
depositing the tax withheld, set aside the amount withheld
in escrow until the date that the account ceases to be a
dormant account. In such case, the tax withheld becomes
due 90 days following the date that the account ceases to
be a dormant account if the account holder does not provide the required documentation, or becomes refundable
to the account holder if the account holder provides documentation establishing that withholding does not apply.
A withholding agent that withholds tax under chapter 3
on certain payments that include an undetermined amount
of income may retain 30% of the payment to hold in escrow in accordance with Regulations section 1.1441-3(d).
Similarly, if a withholding agent is unable to determine
whether the payment is a withholdable payment because
the source or character of the payment is unknown, the
withholding agent may retain 30% of the payment to hold
in escrow for chapter 4 purposes in accordance with Regulations section 1.1471-2(a)(5).
Electronic deposit requirement. You must deposit all
withheld taxes under chapter 3 or 4 by electronic funds
transfer. Electronic funds transfers can be made using the
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) or IRS
Direct Pay. If you do not want to use EFTPS or IRS Direct
Pay, you can arrange for your tax professional, FI, or other
trusted third party to make deposits on your behalf. You
may also arrange for your FI to initiate a same-day wire
payment on your behalf. EFTPS and IRS Direct Pay are
free services provided by the Department of the Treasury
and the IRS, respectively. Services provided by your tax
professional, FI, or other third party may have a fee.
For more information about EFTPS or to enroll in
EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. For additional information about EFTPS, see Pub. 966, Electronic
Federal Tax Payment System, A Guide To Getting Started.
For more information about IRS Direct Pay, go to IRS.gov/
DirectPay.
Note: All payments should be stated in U.S. dollars
and should be made in U.S. dollars.
Tip: Qualified business taxpayers that request an EIN will
automatically be enrolled in EFTPS. They will receive information on how to activate their account.
Penalty for failure to make deposits on time. If you fail
to make a required deposit within the time prescribed, a
penalty is imposed on the underpayment (the excess of
the required deposit over any actual timely deposit for a
period). You can avoid the penalty if you can show that the
failure to deposit was for reasonable cause and not because of willful neglect. Also, the IRS may waive the penalty if certain requirements are met.

Publication 515 (2026)

Depositing on time. For deposits made by EFTPS to
be on time, you must initiate the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern
time the day before the date the deposit is due. If you use
a third party to make deposits on your behalf, they may
have different cutoff times.
Penalty rate. If the deposit is:

• 1 to 5 days late, the penalty is 2% of the underpayment;

• 6 to 15 days late, the penalty is 5%; or
• 16 or more days late, the penalty is 10%.
However, if the deposit is not made within 10 days after
the IRS issues the first notice demanding payment, the
penalty is 15%.
If you owe a penalty for failing to deposit tax for more
than one deposit period, and you make a deposit, your deposit is applied to the most recent period to which the deposit relates unless you designate the deposit period or
periods to which your deposit is to be applied. You can
make this designation only during a 90-day period that begins on the date of the penalty notice. The notice contains
instructions on how to make this designation.

Adjustment for Overwithholding
What to do if you overwithheld tax depends on when you
discover the overwithholding.
Overwithholding discovered by March 15 of the following calendar year. If you discover that you overwithheld tax under chapter 3 or 4 by March 15 of the following
calendar year, you may use the undeposited amount of
tax to make any necessary adjustments between you and
the recipient of the income. However, if the undeposited
amount is not enough to make any adjustments, or if you
discover the overwithholding after the entire amount of tax
has been deposited, you can use either the reimbursement procedure or the set-off procedure to adjust the
overwithholding.
For more information on the reimbursement procedure
and set-off procedure, and what to do if you discover the
overwithholding after March 15 of the following calendar
year, see Adjustment for Overwithholding in the Instructions for Form 1042.
Tip: If March 15 is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday,
the next business day is the final date for these actions.

Returns Required
Every withholding agent, whether U.S. or foreign, must file
Forms 1042 and 1042-S to report:

• Amounts subject to chapter 3 withholding paid to foreign persons (including persons presumed to be foreign), even if no amount is deducted and withheld
from the payment under chapter 3; and

61

• Payments to which chapter 4 withholding is applied or

more than 100 partners. See the Instructions for Form
1042 for more information. For general information about
e-filing, see Pub. 4163, Modernized e-File (MeF) Information for Authorized IRS e-File Providers for Business Returns.

Do not use Forms 1042 and 1042-S to report tax withheld on the following.

Form 1042-S. Every U.S. and foreign withholding agent
must file a Form 1042-S for amounts subject to chapter 3
withholding and chapter 4 reportable amounts unless an
exception applies. You may be required to e-file Form
1042-S. Go to IRS.gov/InfoReturn for e-file options.
A separate Form 1042-S is required for each recipient
of income to whom you made payments during the preceding calendar year regardless of whether you withheld
or were required to withhold tax. However, if you make a
withholdable payment to an NQI or a flow-through entity
that is allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool, as indicated on a withholding statement upon which you may
rely with respect to the payment allocable to such a pool,
you should complete a separate Form 1042-S for each
chapter 4 withholding rate pool (that is, pool of recalcitrant
account holders, pool of nonparticipating FFIs, pool of
payees that are U.S. persons), treating the intermediary or
flow-through entity as the recipient (and the applicable
pool as the chapter 4 status of the recipient). You need not
issue a Form 1042-S to each recipient included in such
pool. You must use a separate Form 1042-S for each type
of income that you paid to the same recipient. See Statements to recipients, later.
You must furnish a Form 1042-S for each recipient even
if you did not withhold tax because you repaid the tax withheld to the recipient or because the income payment was
exempt from tax under the Internal Revenue Code or under a U.S. income tax treaty (except for a withholdable
payment that is not a chapter 4 reportable amount).
You can use a substitute Form 1042-S if it meets the requirements listed in Pub. 1179. Paper substitutes that totally conform to the format and size of the official form may
be used without prior approval from the IRS. Go to
IRS.gov/Pub1179 for more information.
If you are reporting amounts withheld by another withholding agent, Form 1042-S requests the name and EIN
of the withholding agent that withheld the tax to the extent
required in the Instructions for Form 1042-S.

which are allocated on an applicable withholding
statement provided by a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI to a chapter 4 withholding rate
pool of U.S. payees (chapter 4 reportable amounts).

• Wages, salaries, or other compensation reported on

Form W-2 (see Wages Paid to Employees, earlier, under Pay for Personal Services Performed).

• Any part of a U.S. or foreign partnership’s (other than a
PTP) ECTI allocable to a foreign partner (see Partnership Withholding on ECTI, later).

• Dispositions of USRPIs by foreign persons (see U.S.
Real Property Interest, later).

• Pensions, annuities, and certain other deferred income reported on Form 1099.

• Income, social security, and Medicare taxes on wages
paid to a household employee reported on Schedule H (Form 1040).

• Amounts subject to backup withholding under section
3406, including withholdable payments that are reportable payments and that are paid to a recalcitrant
account holder of a participating FFI or registered
deemed-compliant FFI that has elected on its withholding statement for withholding under section 3406
to apply instead of withholding under chapter 4.

Deposit interest paid to certain nonresident alien individuals. Interest earned by residents of certain foreign
countries is subject to information reporting. Deposit interest of $10 or more paid to any nonresident alien individual
who is a resident of a foreign country with which the United States has agreed to exchange tax information pursuant to an income tax treaty or other convention or bilateral agreement must be reported on Form 1042-S.
Revenue Procedure 2021-32 identifies those countries
for which reporting of deposit interest is required with respect to a resident of any such country.
Note: You may elect to report interest paid to any nonresident alien.
Due date. Forms 1042 and 1042-S must be filed by
March 15 of the year following the calendar year in which
the income subject to reporting was paid. If March 15 falls
on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is the
next business day.
Form 1042. Every U.S. and foreign withholding agent
that is required to file a Form 1042-S must also file an annual return on Form 1042. You must file Form 1042 even if
you were not required to withhold any income tax under
chapter 3 on the payment, or if the payment is a chapter 4
reportable amount.
E-filing of Form 1042 is required for a withholding agent
that is an FI; a withholding agent that must file 10 or more
information returns in a calendar year, as described in
Regulations section 301.6011-2; or a partnership with
62

Caution: If you file a substitute for Copy A with the IRS
that does not conform to the specifications in Pub. 1179,
you may be subject to a penalty for failing to file a correct
return. See Penalties, later.
Joint owners. If there are joint owners of the withholdable payment, see Payments directly to beneficial
owners under Payments to Recipients in the Instructions
for Form 1042-S.
E-filing. For information about Form 1042-S e-filing requirements for withholding agents or their agents, and
partnerships with a Form 1042-S filing requirement, including the threshold return limits, see Electronic Reporting in the Instructions for Form 1042-S.
For additional information and instructions on e-filing
Forms 1042-S, go to IRS.gov/InfoReturn for e-file options.
Publication 515 (2026)

Form 1042-T. If you are not required to e-file and Form
1042-S is filed on paper, it must be filed with Form 1042-T.
You may need to file more than one Form 1042-T. See the
instructions for Form 1042-T for more information.

ment and How to file electronically in the Instructions for
Form 8966.

Statements to recipients. You must furnish a statement
to each recipient for whom you are filing a Form 1042-S by
the due date for filing Forms 1042 and 1042-S with the
IRS. You may use a copy of the official Form 1042-S for
this purpose. Any substitute forms must comply with the
rules set out in Pub. 1179. You must furnish a separate
substitute Form 1042-S for each type of income or payment. The withholding agent must ensure that any substitute copies of Form 1042-S (Copies B, C, and D) furnished to the recipient conform in format and size to the
official Form 1042-S Copies B, C, and D, and contain the
exact same information as the copies submitted to the IRS
or e-filed. However, the size of a substitute Form 1042-S,
Copies B, C, and D, may be adjusted if the substitute form
is presented on a landscape-oriented page rather than a
portrait-oriented page. Regardless of orientation, only one
Form 1042-S may be submitted per page.

You can request extensions of time to file Forms 1042 and
1042-S with the IRS and additional extensions to furnish
Forms 1042-S to recipients.

Form 8966
A withholding agent that makes a withholdable payment to
a passive NFFE with one or more substantial U.S. owners
(or, in the case of a reporting Model 2 FFI, controlling persons of such an entity) or an owner-documented FFI with
a specified U.S. person owning certain equity or debt interests in the FFI must report the payment and each such
substantial U.S. owner (or controlling person, as applicable) or specified U.S. person owner of the passive NFFE
or owner-documented FFI, respectively, on Form 8966 (in
addition to reporting the payment and tax (if any) on
Forms 1042 and 1042-S when the payment is an amount
subject to chapter 3 withholding). An exception to the requirement to report on Form 8966 applies when the payment is made to an account reported by an FFI as a U.S.
account under the FFI’s applicable chapter 4 requirements
or the requirements of an applicable IGA.
Form 8966 must be filed by March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the payment is made. An
automatic 90-day extension of time to file Form 8966 may
be requested. To request an automatic 90-day extension
of time to file Form 8966, file Form 8809-I, Application for
Extension of Time to File FATCA Form 8966. See the Instructions for Form 8809-I at IRS.gov/Form8809I for where
to file that form. You should request an extension as soon
as you are aware that an extension is necessary, but no
later than the due date for filing Form 8966. Under certain
hardship conditions, the IRS may grant an additional
90-day extension to file Form 8966. To request an additional 90-day extension of time to file Form 8966, file a
second Form 8809-I before the end of the initial extended
due date.

Extensions of Time To File

Extension to file Form 1042. You can get an automatic
6-month extension of time to file Form 1042 by filing Form
7004. File Form 7004 on or before the due date of Form
1042. Form 7004 does not extend the time for payment of
tax.
Caution: Form 7004 extends only the due date for filing
the returns with the IRS. It does not extend the due date
for furnishing statements to recipients.
Extension to file Form 1042-S with the IRS. You can
get an automatic 30-day extension of time to file Form
1042-S by filing Form 8809, Application for Extension of
Time to File Information Returns. You should request an
extension as soon as you are aware that an extension is
necessary, but no later than the due date for filing Form
1042-S.
You may request one additional extension of 30 days by
submitting a second Form 8809 before the end of the first
extension period. Requests for an additional extension are
not automatically granted. When requesting the additional
extension, include a copy of the filed Form 8809. The IRS
will send you a letter of explanation approving or denying
your request for an additional extension. See the instructions for Form 8809 for more information.
Caution: If you are requesting extensions of time to file
for more than one withholding agent or payer, you must
submit the extension request electronically.
Extension to furnish statements to recipients. You
may request a one-time 30-day extension to furnish copies of Form 1042-S. See the Instructions for Form 1042-S
for more information.

Penalties
If you do not file a correct and complete Form 1042 or
Form 1042-S with the IRS on time or if you do not provide
a correct and complete Form 1042-S to the recipient on
time, you may be subject to a penalty.
For more information on penalties, see Interest and
Penalties in the Instructions for Form 1042 and Penalties
in the Instructions for Form 1042-S.

E-filing requirement for Form 8966. For information
about the Form 8966 e-filing requirements, including the
threshold return limits, for FIs and all other entities with a
Form 8966 filing requirement, see Electronic filing requirePublication 515 (2026)

63

Partnership Withholding on
Effectively Connected Taxable
Income (ECTI)
Under section 1446(a), a partnership (foreign or domestic)
that has income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or
business (or income treated as effectively connected)
must pay a withholding tax on the ECTI that is allocable to
its foreign partners. A PTP or nominee for a PTP distribution must withhold tax on actual distributions of ECI. See
Publicly Traded Partnership Distributions, later. Chapter 4
withholding does not apply to this income.
This withholding tax does not apply to income that is
not effectively connected with the partnership’s U.S. trade
or business. That income may be subject to chapter 3
withholding tax, as discussed earlier.

Who Must Withhold
The partnership, or a withholding agent for the partnership, must pay the withholding tax. A partnership that must
pay the withholding tax but fails to do so may be liable for
the payment of the tax and any penalties and interest.
The partnership must determine whether a partner is a
foreign partner. A foreign partner can be a nonresident
alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign partnership,
foreign estate or trust, foreign tax-exempt organization, or
foreign government.
U.S. partner. A partner that is a U.S. person should provide Form W-9 to the partnership.
A partnership may rely on a partner’s certification of
nonforeign status and assume that a partner is not a foreign partner unless the form:

• Does not give the partner’s name, U.S. TIN, and address; or

• Is not signed under penalties of perjury and dated.
The partnership must keep the certification for as long
as it may be relevant to the partnership’s liability for tax under section 1446.
The partnership may not rely on the certification if it has
actual knowledge or has reason to know that any information on the form is incorrect or unreliable.
If a partnership does not receive a Form W-9 (or similar
documentation), the partnership must presume that the
partner is a foreign person.

Foreign Partner

section 1446(a) if they meet the requirements discussed
earlier under documentation. However, a foreign simple
trust that has provided documentation for its beneficiaries
for purposes of section 1441 must provide a Form W-8 on
its own behalf for purposes of section 1446.
The partnership may not rely on the certification if it has
actual knowledge or has reason to know that any information on the form is incorrect or unreliable.
The partnership must keep the certification for as long
as it may be relevant to the partnership’s liability for section 1446 tax.

Chart D. Documentation for Foreign
Partners*
THEN provide to the
partnership Form...

IF you are a...
nonresident alien

W-8BEN.

foreign corporation

W-8BEN-E.

foreign partnership

W-8IMY.

foreign government

W-8EXP.

foreign grantor trust**

W-8IMY.

certain foreign trust or foreign
estate

W-8BEN.

foreign tax-exempt organization
(including a private foundation)

W-8EXP.

nominee

W-8 used by beneficial owner.

* A partnership may substitute its own form for the official version of Form W-8
to ascertain the identity of its partners.
** A domestic grantor trust must provide a statement as shown in Regulations
section 1.1446-1(c)(2)(ii)(E), and documentation for its grantor.

Amount of Withholding Tax
The amount a partnership must withhold is based on its
ECTI that is allocable to its foreign partners for the partnership’s tax year. However, see Publicly Traded Partnership Distributions, later.
Reduction of withholding. The foreign partner’s share
of the partnership’s gross ECI is reduced by the following.

• The partner’s share of partnership deductions connected to that income for the year.

• The partner’s tax treaty benefits related to that income
(see Chart D for documentation).

The partnership may reduce the foreign partner’s share
of partnership gross ECI by the following.
1. State and local income taxes the partnership withholds and pays on behalf of the partner on current-year ECTI allocated to the partner.

A partner that is a foreign person should provide the appropriate Form W-8 (as shown in Chart D) to the partnership.

2. The foreign partner’s partner-level deductions and
losses that the partner certifies to the partnership as:

Partners who have otherwise provided Form W-8 to a
partnership for purposes of section 1441 or 1442, as discussed earlier, can use the same form for purposes of

b. Properly allocated to gross ECI of the partner’s
trade or business in the United States, and

64

a. Carried forward from a prior year,

Publication 515 (2026)

c. Reasonably expected to be available and claimed
on the partner’s U.S. income tax return.

(ii) to the extent of the partner’s share of income for the
partnership year.

To certify the deductions and losses, a partner must
submit to the partnership Form 8804-C, Certificate of Partner-Level Items to Reduce Section 1446 Withholding.
If the partner’s investment in the partnership is the only
activity producing ECI and the section 1446 tax is less
than $1,000, no withholding is required. The partner must
provide Form 8804-C to the partnership to receive the exemption from withholding.
A foreign partner may submit a Form 8804-C to a partnership at any time during the partnership’s year and prior
to the partnership’s filing of its Form 8804, Annual Return
for Partnership Withholding Tax (Section 1446). An updated certificate is required when the facts or representations made in the original certificate have changed or a
status report is required.
For more information, see the Instructions for Form
8804-C.

Notification to partners. In most cases, a partnership
must notify each foreign partner of the tax withheld on its
behalf within 10 days of the installment payment date. No
particular form is required for this notification. For more information on the substance of the notification and exceptions, see Regulations section 1.1446-3(d)(1)(i).

Tax rate. The withholding tax rate on a partner’s share of
ECTI is 37% for noncorporate partners and 21% for corporate partners. However, the partnership may withhold at
the highest rate applicable to a particular type of income
allocated to a partner provided the partnership received
the appropriate documentation. See Regulations section
1.1446-3(a)(2)(ii).
Installment payments. A partnership must make installment payments of withholding tax on its foreign partners’
share of ECTI whether or not distributions are made during the partnership’s tax year. The amount of a partnership’s installment payment is the sum of the installment
payments for each of its foreign partners. The amount of
each installment payment can be figured by using Form
8804-W, Installment Payments of Section 1446 Tax for
Partnerships.
Date payments are due. Payments of withholding tax
must be made during the partnership’s tax year in which
the ECTI is derived. A partnership must pay the IRS a part
of the annual withholding tax for its foreign partners by the
15th day of the 4th, 6th, 9th, and 12th months of its tax
year for U.S. income tax purposes. Any additional
amounts due are to be paid with Form 8804, the annual
partnership withholding tax return, discussed later.
A foreign partner’s share of withholding tax paid by a
partnership is treated as distributed to the partner on the
earliest of:

• The day on which the tax was paid by the partnership,
• The last day of the partnership’s tax year for which the
tax was paid, or

• The last day on which the partner owned an interest in
the partnership during that year.

The amount treated as distributed to the partner resulting from an installment payment is generally treated as an
advance or draw under Regulations section 1.731-1(a)(1)

Publication 515 (2026)

Real property transfers. If a domestic partnership disposes of a USRPI, gain or loss from the sale allocable to a
foreign partner is treated as effectively connected to the
conduct of a U.S. trade or business and is included in
ECTI. The partnership or withholding agent must withhold
following the rules discussed here for section 1446(a)
withholding. A domestic partnership’s compliance with
these rules satisfies the requirements for withholding on
the disposition of U.S. real property interests (discussed
later).
If a foreign partnership disposes of a U.S. property interest, the transferee must withhold under section
1445(a), although gain or loss from the sale is also treated
as effectively connected to the conduct of a U.S. trade or
business and is included in ECTI. The foreign partnership
may credit the amount withheld under section 1445(a) that
is allocable to foreign partners against its tax liability under
section 1446.
Transfers of interests in partnerships engaged in the
conduct of a U.S. trade or business. If a domestic partnership transfers a direct or indirect interest in another
partnership engaged in the conduct of a U.S. trade or
business, gain or loss from the sale allocable to a foreign
partner that is treated under section 864(c)(8) as effectively connected to the conduct of a U.S. trade or business
is included in ECTI.
If a foreign partnership transfers an interest in another
partnership for a gain and section 864(c)(8) treats any
portion of that gain as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, then the
partnership will be withheld upon under section 1446(f)(1).
The foreign partnership may credit the amount withheld
under section 1446(f)(1) that is allocable to foreign partners against its tax liability under section 1446(a).

Reporting and Paying the Tax
Three forms are required for reporting and paying over tax
withheld on ECTI allocable to foreign partners. This does
not apply to PTPs, discussed later.
Form 8804. The withholding tax liability of the partnership for its tax year is reported on Form 8804. Form 8804
is also a transmittal form for Forms 8805, Foreign Partner’s
Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax.
Any additional withholding tax owed for the partnership’s tax year is paid (in U.S. currency) with Form 8804.
File Form 8804 by the 15th day of the 3rd month after
the close of the partnership’s tax year. If you need more

65

time to file Form 8804, file Form 7004 to request an extension of time to file. Form 7004 does not extend the time to
pay the tax.

Publicly Traded Partnership
Distributions (PTP Distributions)

Form 8805. This form is used to show the amount of
ECTI and any withholding tax payments allocable to a foreign partner for the partnership’s tax year. At the end of
the partnership’s tax year, Form 8805 must be sent to
each foreign partner on whose behalf tax under section
1446 was withheld or whose Form 8804-C the partnership
considered, whether or not any withholding tax is paid. It
must be delivered to the foreign partner by the due date of
the partnership return (including extensions). A copy of
Form 8805 for each foreign partner must also be attached
to Form 8804 when it is filed. Also, attach the most recent
Form 8804-C, discussed earlier, to the Form 8805 filed for
the partnership’s tax year in which the Form 8804-C was
considered.
A copy of Form 8805 must be attached to the foreign
partner’s U.S. income tax return to take a credit on its
Form 1040-NR or Form 1120-F.

A PTP that has ECTI must pay withholding tax under section 1446(a) on any distributions of that income made to
its foreign partners. A PTP must use Forms 1042 and
1042-S (income code 27) to report withholding from PTP
distributions. The rate of withholding is 37% for noncorporate partners and 21% for corporate partners under section 1446(a).

Form 8813. This form is used to make payments of withheld tax to the U.S. Treasury. Payments must be made in
U.S. currency by the payment dates (see Date payments
are due, earlier). See the Instructions for Form 8804-C for
when you must attach a copy of that form to Form 8813,
Partnership Withholding Tax Payment Voucher (Section
1446).
Penalties. A penalty may be imposed for the following.

• Failure to file Form 8804 when due (including extensions).

• Failure to file Form 8805 when due (including exten-

sions) or to provide complete and correct information.

• Failure to provide a complete and correct Form 8805
to each partner when due (including extensions).

Exception. No penalty is imposed if you meet certain
requirements. However, if a filer intentionally disregards
the requirement to file Form 8805 when due, to furnish
Form 8805 to the recipient when due, or to report correct
information, the penalty for each Form 8805 (or statement
to recipient) may be higher.
For more information, see Interest and Penalties in the
Instructions for Forms 8804, 8805, and 8813.
Identification numbers. A partnership that has not been
assigned a U.S. EIN must obtain one. If a number has not
been assigned by the due date of the first withholding tax
payment, the partnership should enter the date the number was applied for on Form 8813 when making its payment. As soon as the partnership receives its EIN, it must
immediately provide that number to the IRS.
To ensure proper crediting of the withholding tax when
reporting to the IRS, the partnership must include each
partner’s U.S. TIN on Form 8805. If there are partners in
the partnership without identification numbers, the partnership should inform them of the need to get a number.
See U.S. or Foreign TINs, earlier.

66

A PTP is any partnership an interest in which is regularly traded on an established securities market or is readily tradable on a secondary market. These rules do not apply to a PTP treated as a corporation under section 7704.
Foreign partner. The partnership determines whether a
partner is a foreign partner using the rules discussed earlier under foreign partner.
Nominee. The withholding agent under section 1446(a)
can be the PTP or a nominee. Starting in 2023, a nominee
for section 1446(a) purposes is a person receiving a PTP
distribution on behalf of a foreign person and that is a domestic person, a U.S. branch of a foreign corporation that
is treated as a U.S. person, or a QI that assumes primary
withholding responsibility for the distribution. See Regulations section 1.1446-4(b)(3) (describing nominees and
their withholding requirements). For purposes of section
1446(a) withholding, a nominee generally determines
whether a partner is a foreign partner under the same requirements applicable to a PTP. See Foreign partner directly above. A nominee for a PTP distribution must, in addition to withholding on the distribution to the extent
required under section 1446(a), withhold on amounts attributable to the distribution that are subject to withholding
under chapters 3 and 4, in addition to withholding under
section 1446(f) on an amount realized on the distribution.
See Ordering rules and Section 1446(f): PTP Interests,
later. A nominee determines each amount subject to withholding on a PTP distribution based on a qualified notice
issued by the PTP making the distribution or, in the absence of a qualified notice (or when a qualified notice
does not specify each amount attributable to the distribution), based on the withholding default rule in section
1.1446-4(d).
A PTP or a nominee for a PTP distribution is not generally required to withhold on the distribution, however, when
it pays the distribution to a nominee for the distribution. In
such a case, the PTP or nominee is required to report the
nominee to which it pays the distribution as the recipient
for Form 1042-S reporting. If a PTP or nominee pays a
PTP distribution to an NQI, however, the PTP or nominee
must generally determine its withholding based on a withholding statement and partner documentation provided by
the NQI with respect to the distribution. An NQI for this
purpose includes a U.S. branch that is not acting as a U.S.
person for a PTP distribution. See the Instructions for
Form W-8IMY for additional information on payments of
PTP distributions made to NQIs. If a PTP or nominee for a
PTP distribution pays the distribution to a QI not acting as
a nominee for the distribution, the PTP or nominee can
Publication 515 (2026)

determine its withholding based on withholding rate pool
information provided by the QI or partner information provided by a QI that acts as a disclosing QI. See Revenue
Procedure 2022-43 for information on the withholding and
other requirements of QIs acting as nominees or as disclosing QIs for PTP distributions (starting January 1,
2023). See the Instructions for Form 1042-S for the reporting of a PTP distribution paid to an account holder of a
disclosing QI and when a nominee for a PTP distribution is
required to report information about the PTP making a distribution on a Form 1042-S.
Distributions subject to withholding. The partnership
or nominee must withhold tax on any actual distributions
of money or property to foreign partners. The amount of
the distribution includes the amount of any tax under section 1446(a) required to be withheld. In the case of a partnership that receives a partnership distribution from another partnership (a tiered partnership), the distribution
also includes the tax withheld from that distribution.
If the distribution is in property other than money, the
partnership cannot release the property until it has enough
funds to pay over the withholding tax.
A PTP or nominee may also be required to withhold on
portions of a distribution that are subject to other withholding regimes (such as section 1441, 1442, 1445, or
1446(f)), or that are exempt from withholding. The PTP will
generally indicate on a published qualified notice the extent to which a distribution is allocable to a type of income
subject to withholding. If a PTP does not include this information on a qualified notice, a withholding agent must apply presumption rules, generally resulting in withholding at
the highest rate (depending on the partner’s classification).
With respect to distributions made with respect to a
USRPI, if the PTP or nominee complies with these section
1446(a) withholding requirements, it is treated as satisfying the requirements discussed later under U.S. Real
Property Interest. These distributions include:

• Amounts subject to withholding under section 1445(e)
(1) on distributions pursuant to an election under Regulations section 1.1445-5(c)(3), and

• Amounts not subject to withholding under section

1445 because the distributee is a partnership or is a
foreign corporation that has made an election to be
treated as a domestic corporation.

Ordering rules. Partnership distribution consisting of
income subject to various withholding regimes are considered to be paid out of the following types of income in the
order listed.
1. Amounts attributable to income described in section
1441 or 1442 that are not effectively connected with
the conduct of a trade or business in the United
States and are subject to withholding under Regulations section 1.1441-2(a).
2. Amounts attributable to income described in section
1441 or 1442 that are not effectively connected with
the conduct of a trade or business in the United
Publication 515 (2026)

States and are not subject to withholding under Regulations section 1.1441-2(a).
3. Amounts attributable to income effectively connected
with the conduct of a trade or business in the United
States and not subject to withholding under Regulations section 1.1446-1 through 1.1446-6.
4. Amounts subject to withholding under Regulations
section 1.1446-1 through 1.1446-6.
5. Other amounts not listed above (including amounts
subject to section 1446(f).
Depositing taxes a PTP withholds under section
1446. The general rules for making payments of taxes
withheld under section 1446(a) do not apply to PTP distributions. Instead, apply the rules discussed earlier, under
depositing withheld taxes.

Section 1446(f) Withholding
Section 13501 of the TCJA added section 1446(f) effective for transfers of partnership interests occurring on or
after January 1, 2018. Section 1446(f) generally requires
that a transferee of an interest in a partnership withhold
10% of the amount realized on the disposition if any portion of the gain would be treated under section 864(c)(8)
as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or
business within the United States. A transfer can occur
when a partnership distribution results in gain under section 731. Under section 1446(f)(4), if the transferee fails to
withhold any required amount, the partnership must deduct and withhold from distributions to the transferee the
amount that the transferee failed to withhold (plus interest).
Notice 2018-08, 2018-07 I.R.B. 352, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2018-07_IRB#NOT-2018-08, temporarily suspended the application of section 1446(f) to the disposition of certain PTP interests.
Notice 2018-29, 2018-16 I.R.B. 495, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2018-16_IRB#NOT-2018-29, provides interim
guidance regarding withholding of U.S. tax related to
transfers of interests in partnerships, other than PTPs, under section 1446(f). It also temporarily suspended withholding under section 1446(f)(4).
On May 7, 2019, the Department of the Treasury and
the IRS issued proposed regulations under section
1446(f) (84 FR 21198) for transfers of both non-PTP and
PTP interests. During the period that Notice 2018-29 applies, instead of applying the rules described in the Notice,
taxpayers and other affected persons may choose to apply Regulations sections 1.1446(f)-1, 1.1446(f)-2, and
1.1446(f)-5 of the proposed regulations in their entirety to
all transfers as if they were final regulations.
On November 30, 2020, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued final regulations under section
1446(f) in T.D. 9926 (85 FR 76910) for transfers of both
non-PTP and PTP interests. The final regulations require
any transferee to withhold 10% of the amount realized on
67

any transfer of a partnership interest (other than certain
PTP interests) under section 1446(f)(1), unless an exception to withholding applies. These regulations generally
apply to transfers that occur on or after January 29, 2021.
However, in accordance with Notice 2021-51, 2021-36
I.R.B.
361,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2021-36_IRB#NOT-2021-51, the rules related to withholding under section 1446(f)(4) and to transfers of PTP interests apply to transfers occurring on or after January 1,
2023. Additionally, the final regulations revised certain
provisions in Regulations section 1.1446-4 for withholding
under section 1446(a) on PTP distributions. Also, in accordance with Notice 2021-51, these revisions apply to
PTP distributions made on or after January 1, 2023. Notices 2018-08 and 2018-29 apply to transfers that occur before the effective date of the final regulations or, as previously described, taxpayers may apply the proposed
regulations to transfers of non-PTP interests during this
time. For additional guidance to brokers required to withhold on transfers of PTP interests, see Notice 2023-8,
2023-2
I.R.B.
344,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2023-02_IRB#NOT-2023-8.

Section 1446(f): Non-PTP Interests
Exceptions to withholding on transfers of non-PTP
interests. A transferee, including a partnership when the
partner is a distributee, is not required to withhold on the
transfer of a non-PTP interest if it properly relies on one of
the following six certifications, the requirements of which
are more fully described in the referenced regulations. A
transferee may not rely on a certification if it has actual
knowledge that the certification is incorrect or unreliable.
A partnership that is a transferee because it makes a distribution may not rely on its books and records if it knows,
or has reason to know, that the information is incorrect or
unreliable. A certification must provide the name and address of the person providing it, be signed under penalties
of perjury, and generally include the TIN of the transferor.
See Regulations sections 1.1446(f)-1(c)(2)(i) and
1.1446(f)-2(b)(1). Also, separate rules apply if the transfer
results from a partnership distribution. Only the certification in Exception 6 must be submitted to the IRS.
The certifications in several of the exceptions are based
on a determination date. The determination date must
be one of the following: (a) the date of the transfer; (b) any
date no more than 60 days before the date of the transfer;
or (c) if the transferor is not a controlling partner, as defined in Regulations section 1.1446(f)-1(b)(2), the later of
(i) the first day of the partnership’s taxable year in which
the transfer occurs, or (ii) the date before the transfer of
the partnership’s most recent capital account revaluation
event. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-1(c)(4).
1. Certification of non-foreign status.The transferor
provides a certification of non-foreign status signed
under penalties of perjury that states that the transferor is not a foreign person, and provides the transferor’s name, TIN, and address. A certificate of
non-foreign status includes a Form W-9. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(b)(2).
68

2. Certification of no realized gain. The transferor
provides a certification that there was no realized gain
on the transfer of the partnership interest (including no
ordinary income arising from the application of section
751 and Regulations section 1.751-1) as of the determination date. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(b)
(3).
3. Certification of less than 10% effectively connected gain. The partnership provides a certification
stating that:
a. On the deemed sale of the partnership assets in
the manner described in Regulations section
1.864(c)(8)-1(c) as of the determination date either: the partnership would have no effectively
connected gain (or the net amount of its effectively
connected gain would be less than 10% of the total net gain) on all its assets; or the transferor’s
distributive share of net effectively connected gain
resulting from the deemed sale would be less than
10% of the transferor’s distributive share of the total net gain; or
b. The partnership was not engaged in a trade or
business within the United States at any time during the taxable year of the partnership until the
date of transfer. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(b)(4).
4. Certification of less than 10% effectively connected income. The transferor provides a certification
that:
a. The transferor was a partner in the partnership for
the transferor’s immediately prior tax year (for
which it has already received a Schedule K-1) and
the 2 preceding tax years (the look-back period)
and had a distributive share of gross income from
the partnership in each of these years;
b. The transferor’s distributive share of gross ECI
from the partnership, and any persons related to
the transferor, as reported on a Schedule K-1
(Form 1065) or other statement required by the
partnership, was less than $1 million for each of
the tax years during the look-back period;
c. The transferor’s distributive share of partnership
gross ECI, as reported on a Schedule K-1 or K-3
(Form 1065) or other statement required by the
partnership, for each year during the look-back period, was less than 10% of its total distributive
share of partnership gross income; and
d. For each year during the look-back period, the
transferor’s distributive share of partnership ECI or
gain (or losses properly allocated and apportioned
to that income) has been timely reported on a federal income tax return of the transferor (or if the
transferor was a partnership, its direct or indirect
nonresident alien and foreign corporate partners)
and any tax due with respect to such amounts
have been timely paid, provided the return was required to be filed when the transferor furnishes the
Publication 515 (2026)

certification. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(b)(5).
5. Certification of nonrecognition. The transferor provides a certification that it is not required to recognize
any gain or loss with respect to the transfer by reason
of the operation of a nonrecognition provision of the
Internal Revenue Code. The certification must briefly
describe the transfer and provide the relevant law and
facts relating to the certification. This exception does
not apply if only a portion of the gain is not recognized. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(b)(6).
6. Certification that an income tax treaty applies.The transferor provides a certification using
Form W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E, as applicable, or applicable substitute form that meets the requirements under Regulations section 1.1446-1(c)(5) that the transferor is not subject to tax on any gain from the transfer
pursuant to an income tax treaty. The transferor may
not provide this certification if any portion of the gain
is subject to tax. The form should contain the information necessary to support the claim for treaty benefits.
Within 30 days after the date of the transfer, the transferee must mail certain information, plus a copy of the
certificate, to the IRS, at the address in the Instructions for Form 8288. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(b)(7).
A non-PTP making a distribution to a partner may generally rely on any of the above exceptions, with certain additional considerations.

• In Exception 2, the no realized gain exception, a dis-

determination
date.
See
1.1446(f)-2(c)(2)(ii) and (iii).

Regulations

section

Modified amount realized. If a foreign partnership is
the transferor, separate rules may apply to determine a
modified amount realized. The modified amount realized
is determined by multiplying the amount realized by the
aggregate percentage computed as of the determination
date. The aggregate percentage is the percentage of the
gain (if any) arising from the transfer that would be allocated to any presumed foreign taxable persons. For this purpose, a presumed foreign taxable person is any person
that has not provided a certificate of non-foreign status, as
previously described in the Exception 1 to withholding, or
a certification that pursuant to a tax treaty no portion of the
foreign taxable person’s gain is subject to tax. The certification the transferor foreign partnership provides does not
need to be submitted to the IRS. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(c)(2)(iv).
Lack of money or property or lack of knowledge
regarding liabilities. Under certain circumstances, the
amount the transferee must withhold equals the entire
amount realized, rather than 10% of the amount realized,
but the amount realized is determined without regard to
any decrease in the transferor’s share of partnership liabilities. These circumstances are if:
1. The amount otherwise required to be withheld would
exceed the amount realized determined without regard to the decrease in the transferor’s share of partnership liabilities; or

• In Exception 4, the less than 10% ECI exception, a

2. The transferee is unable to determine the amount realized because it does not have actual knowledge of
the transferor’s share of partnership liabilities (and has
not received or cannot rely on a certification of the
transferor’s share of partnership liabilities received
from the transferor (including the most recent Schedule K-1) or a certification of the transferor’s share of liabilities received from the partnership). See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(c)(3)(ii).

Caution: See the discussion, later, regarding certification
of maximum tax lability if a nonrecognition provision applies to only a portion of the gain realized on the transfer
or only a portion of the gain on the transfer is not subject
to tax pursuant to an income tax treaty.

Certification of maximum tax liability. A transferor
that meets certain requirements can certify its maximum
tax liability to the transferee. The maximum tax liability is
the amount of the transferor’s effectively connected gain
multiplied by the applicable percentage under Regulations
section 1.1446-3(a)(2). The applicable percentage for foreign corporations is the highest rate of tax under section
11(b) and for non-corporations is the highest rate of tax
under section 1. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(c)(4)
for further information. The certificate does not need to
and should not be submitted to the IRS for approval.

tributing partnership may generally rely on its books
and records or on a certification from the distributee
partner.

distributing partnership may generally rely on its books
and records but must also obtain a representation
from the distributee partner stating that the distributee
partner satisfies the reporting and tax payment requirements with respect to the partnership’s ECI for
the look-back period.

Determining the amount to withhold. In general, the
transferee must withhold 10% of the amount realized. The
amount realized includes the cash paid, the fair market
value of property transferred, plus the assumption of and
relief from liabilities, and liabilities to which the partnership
interest is subject. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(c)
(2)(i). If certain requirements are met, the transferee may
rely on a certification of the amount of the transferor’s
share of partnership liabilities reported on the most recent
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) issued by the partnership or a
certification from a partnership that provides the amount
of the transferor’s share of partnership liabilities as of the
Publication 515 (2026)

Effect of withholding on transferor. A transferee’s
withholding of tax under section 1446(f)(1) does not relieve a foreign person from filing a U.S. tax return with respect to the transfer. Further, it does not relieve a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation subject to tax
on gain by reason of section 864(c)(8) from paying with
the return any tax due that has not been fully satisfied
through withholding.

69

Transfers of partnership interests subject to withholding under sections 1445(e)(5) and 1446(f)(1).
The transfer of a partnership interest may be subject to
withholding under section 1445(e)(5) or Regulations section 1.1445-11T(d)(1) if 50% or more of the value of the
partnership’s gross assets consist of USRPI, and 90% or
more of the value of its gross assets consist of USRPI plus
any cash or cash equivalents. The transfer of a partnership interest may also be subject to withholding under
section 1446(f)(1) and Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2 if
the partnership also holds other property used in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. If both
sections 1445(e)(5) and 1446(f)(1) could apply to the
same transfer, generally the transfer is subject to the payment and reporting requirements of section 1445 only, and
not section 1446(f)(1). However, if the transferor has applied for a withholding certificate under the last sentence
of Regulations section 1.1445-11T(d)(1), the transferee
must withhold the greater of the amounts required under
section 1445(e)(5) or 1446(f)(1). A transferee that has
complied with the withholding requirements under either
section 1445(e)(5) or 1446(f)(1), as described under this
paragraph, will be deemed to satisfy its withholding requirement.
Forms for paying and reporting section 1446(f)(1)
withholding. To meet the withholding, payment, and reporting requirements under section 1446(f)(1) for transfers
of interests in partnerships other than PTPs, taxpayers
must use Forms 8288 and 8288-A and follow the instructions for those forms.
The time for filing Forms 8288 and 8288-A to report
section 1446(f)(1) withholding is the same as for section
1445 withholding. The same rules for filing Forms 8288
and 8288-A by transferees withholding tax under section
1445 apply to transferees withholding tax under section
1446(f)(1). The same rules for claiming a credit for withholding of tax under section 1445 apply to transferors receiving Form 8288-A claiming credit for withholding under
section 1446(f)(1). For the rules relating to Forms 8288
and 8288-A discussed in this paragraph, see U.S. Real
Property Interest and Reporting and Paying the Tax, later,
as well as the Instructions for Form 8288.
Transferee reporting to partnership. No later than 10
days after the transfer, a transferee (other than a partnership that is a transferee because it made a distribution)
must certify to the partnership the extent to which it has
satisfied its withholding obligation. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(d)(2) for the documentation required for
making this certification.
Partnership’s requirement to withhold under section
1446(f)(4) on distributions to transferee. Section
1446(f)(4) requires a partnership to withhold on distributions to a transferee on any amount that the transferee
failed to properly withhold under section 1446(f)(1), plus
any interest on this amount. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-3. These rules apply to transfers occurring on or
after January 1, 2023. See Notice 2021-51.

70

Requirement to withhold. If a transferee fails to withhold any amount required by Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2 in connection with the transfer of a partnership
interest, the partnership must withhold from the distributions it makes to the transferee. Generally, a partnership
may rely on the certification described in Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2(d)(2) that it receives from the transferee to
determine whether a transferee has withheld the amount
required by Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2, unless it
knows, or has reason to know, that the certification is incorrect or unreliable. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-3(a)(1).
If the partnership receives, within 10 days from the
transfer, a certification from the transferee stating that an
exception to withholding applies or establishing that the
transferee has withheld the amount required to be withheld under Regulations section 1.1446(f)-2, then the partnership is generally not required to withhold under Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(a)(1). See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-3(b)(1). However, a partnership is required to
withhold under section 1446(f)(4) if it receives notification
from the IRS that the transferee has provided incorrect information on the certification. This may occur when the
IRS determines that the transferee has provided incorrect
information on the certification regarding the amount realized or the amount withheld, or that the transferee failed to
pay the amounts reported as withheld to the IRS. See
Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(a)(2).
A partnership that is a transferee because it makes a
distribution subject to section 1446(f)(1) is not required to
withhold under section 1446(f)(4). However, the partnership remains liable for its failure to withhold in its capacity
as a transferee. A PTP is not required to withhold on distributions made to a transferee under section 1446(f)(4).
See Regulations sections 1.1446(f)-3(b)(2) and (3).
Withholding rules. A partnership that does not receive,
or cannot rely on, a timely certification from a transferee
stating that an exception to withholding applies or that the
proper amount has been withheld must begin withholding
on distributions made to the transferee on the later of the
date that is 30 days after the transfer or the date that is 15
days after the partnership acquires actual knowledge of
the transfer. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(c)(1)(i).
The partnership must withhold on the entire amount of
each distribution made to the transferee until it may rely on
a certification from the transferee that states that an exception to withholding applies or that provides the information necessary to determine the amount required to be
withheld. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(c)(1)(ii).
The partnership may rely on this certification to determine
its withholding obligation regardless of whether it is provided within the time prescribed in Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(d)(2). Once the partnership receives a certification from the transferee, the partnership must withhold
10% of the amount realized on the transfer, reduced by
any amount already withheld by the transferee, plus any
computed interest. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(c)
(2)(i).
A partnership that is required to withhold under Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(a)(1) may not take into account
Publication 515 (2026)

any adjustment procedures that would otherwise affect
the amount required to be withheld under Regulations
section 1.1446(f)-2(c)(2)(i). See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-3(c)(2)(i)(A). Thus, for example, a partnership
may not reduce the amount that it is required to withhold
under the procedures described in Regulations section
1.1446(f)-2(c)(4) (adjusting the amount subject to withholding based on a transferor’s maximum tax liability). For
example, if a partnership is required to withhold $30 under
section 1441 on a $100 distribution, the maximum amount
required to be withheld on that distribution under section
1446(f)(4) is $70.
A partnership that does not receive or cannot rely on a
certification from the transferee must withhold the full
amount of each distribution made to the transferee until
the partnership receives a certification that it can rely on.
However, any amount required to be withheld on a distribution under any other withholding provision in the Code
is not required to be withheld under section 1446(f)(4).
See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(c)(3). Nevertheless,
the partnership may stop withholding if the transferee disposes of all of its interest in the partnership, unless the
partnership has actual knowledge that any successor to
the transferee is related to the transferee or the transferor
from which the transferee acquired the interest.
Computation of interest. The amount of interest required to be withheld is the amount of interest that would
be required to be paid under section 6601 and Regulations section 301.6601-1 if the amount that should have
been withheld by the transferee was considered an underpayment of tax. Interest is payable between the date that
is 20 days after the date of the transfer and the date on
which the transferee’s withholding tax liability due under
section 1446(f)(1) is satisfied. See Regulations section
1.1446(f)-3(c)(2)(ii).
Forms and filing dates. A partnership required to withhold under section 1446(f)(4) must report and pay the tax
withheld using Forms 8288 and 8288-C. See Regulations
section 1.1446(f)-3(d). To report section 1446(f)(4) withholding, see the Instructions for Form 8288 for the deadline to file Forms 8288 and 8288-C.
Buyer/transferee claiming refund of section 1446(f)
(4) withholding. A transferee may claim a refund for an
excess amount if it has been overwithheld upon under
section 1446(f)(4). An excess amount is the amount of tax
and interest withheld that exceeds the transferee’s withholding tax liability plus any interest owed by the transferee with respect to such liability. See Regulations section 1.1446(f)-3(e). The transferee may also be liable for
any applicable penalties or additions to tax. A transferee
must complete Part V of Form 8288 and attach Form(s)
8288-C it received from the partnership when making a
claim for refund of section 1446(f)(4) withholding. If a
transferee that has not yet completed and filed Part III of
Form 8288 with respect to a transfer and is now claiming a
refund for amounts withheld under section 1446(f)(4), the
transferee must complete Part III when filing Part V of
Form 8288.
Publication 515 (2026)

Section 1446(f): PTP Interests
For purposes of section 1446(f), a broker is generally required to withhold at a 10% rate on an amount realized
from the transfer of a PTP interest that it effects for the
transferor of the interest. However, certain exceptions to
withholding may apply under Regulations section
1.1446(f)-4(b), which include exceptions for (i) a transferor
providing a certification of non-foreign status, (ii) a certification from a transferor claiming an exemption from tax on
any gain from the transfer under an income tax treaty, or
(iii) a certification of the transferor’s status as a dealer in
securities stating that any gain from the transfer is effectively connected with a trade or business in the U.S. without regard to section 864(c)(8). Additionally, for an amount
realized paid to a transferor that is a foreign partnership, a
broker may rely on a claim for a modified amount realized
made by the partnership on a valid Form W-8IMY and determine its withholding taking into account a certification
of non-foreign status or claim for treaty benefits provided
for a partner in the partnership that meets the requirements of Regulations section 1.1446(f)-4(b)(2) or (5). See
Regulations section 1.1446(f)-4(c)(2)(ii) for further information on a modified amount realized. For an amount realized paid to a transferor that is a grantor trust, a broker
may similarly determine its withholding taking into account
any withholding exception applicable to a grantor or owner
in the trust.
A broker is also required to withhold under section
1446(f) an amount realized from the transfer of a PTP interest that it pays to a broker that is an NQI, a QI (other
than a QI assuming primary withholding responsibility for
the amount realized), or U.S. branch or territory financial
institution that is not treated as a U.S. person for the
amount realized. In the case of an amount realized paid to
an NQI (including a U.S. branch or territory financial institution not treated as a U.S. person), a broker is required to
withhold at the 10% rate under section 1446(f). See the Instructions for Form W-8IMY for additional information on
the amount realized paid to NQIs. In the case of an
amount realized paid to a QI not assuming primary withholding responsibility for the amount, a broker may withhold based on either withholding rate pool information provided by the QI or information on the transferors of the
PTP interest when the QI acts as a disclosing QI.
A broker is not required to withhold under section
1446(f) when it may rely on a published qualified notice
from the PTP that states the “10% exception” applies. See
Regulations section 1.1446(f)-4(b)(3) for further information on this exception, which applies to a PTP with less
than 10% effectively connected gain (or that is otherwise
not engaged in a trade or business in the United States).
An amount realized from the sale of a PTP interest is
the amount of gross proceeds paid or credited from the
sale. In the case of a PTP distribution, an amount realized
on the distribution is limited to an amount described in
Regulations section 1.1446(f)-4(c)(2)(iii).
For when an amount realized is reportable on Form
1042-S and other requirements for reporting amounts
71

realized on Form 1042-S, see Regulations section
1.1461-1(c)(2)(i) and the Instructions for Form 1042-S.
Also, see the Instructions for Form 1042-S for the reporting of an amount realized paid to an NQI, or to a QI (including when the QI acts as a disclosing QI for the amount
realized). See Revenue Procedure 2022-43 for the withholding and reporting requirements of QIs with respect to
amounts realized paid to their account holders (including
QIs acting as disclosing QIs), effective starting January 1,
2023.

U.S. Real Property Interest
The disposition of a USRPI by a foreign person (the transferor) is subject to income tax withholding under section
1445. If you are the transferee, you must find out if the
transferor is a foreign person. If the transferor is a foreign
person and you fail to withhold, you may be held liable for
the tax.
Foreign person. A foreign person is a nonresident alien
individual or a foreign corporation that has not made an
election under section 897(i) to be treated as a domestic
corporation, foreign partnership, foreign trust, or foreign
estate. It does not include a resident alien individual or, in
certain cases, a qualified foreign pension fund. See Retirement and pension funds, later.
Transferor. A transferor is any foreign person that disposes of a USRPI by sale, exchange, gift, or any other transfer. A transfer includes distributions to shareholders of a
corporation and beneficiaries of a trust or estate.
The owner of a disregarded entity, not the entity, is treated as the transferor of the property transferred by the disregarded entity.
Transferee. A transferee is any person, foreign or domestic, that acquires a USRPI by purchase, exchange, gift, or
any other transfer.
USRPI defined. A USRPI is an interest, other than as a
creditor, in real property (including an interest in a mine,
well, or other natural deposit) located in the United States
or the USVI, as well as certain personal property that is
associated with the use of real property (such as farming
machinery). It also means any interest, other than as a
creditor, in any domestic corporation unless it is established that the corporation was at no time a USRPHC during the shorter of the period during which the interest was
held or the 5-year period ending on the date of disposition
(applicable periods).
An interest in a corporation is not a USRPI if:
1. Such corporation did not hold any USRPI on the date
of disposition,
2. All the USRPI held by such corporation at any time
during the shorter of the applicable periods were disposed of in transactions in which the full amount of
any gain was recognized, and

72

3. Such corporation and any predecessor of such corporation was not a RIC or a REIT during the shorter of
the applicable periods during which the interest was
held.
Exception for publicly traded stock. If, at any time
during the calendar year, any class of stock of a domestic
corporation is regularly traded on an established securities market, an interest in such corporation will not be treated as a USRPI if the beneficial owner did not own more
than 5% of the total fair market value of that class of interests, or 10% of the total fair market value of that class of
interests in the case of a REIT, at any time during the
shorter of the applicable periods. Certain constructive
ownership rules apply for purposes of determining
whether any person meets the above ownership threshold
of any class of stock. See section 897(c)(6)(C) for more
information on the constructive ownership rules.
Amount to withhold. The transferee must deduct and
withhold a tax on the total amount realized by the foreign
person on the disposition. The rate of withholding is generally 15%.
The amount realized is the sum of:

• The cash paid or to be paid (principal only);
• The fair market value of other property transferred or
to be transferred; and

• The amount of any liability assumed by the transferee

or to which the property is subject immediately before
and after the transfer.

If the property transferred was owned jointly by U.S.
and foreign persons, the amount realized is allocated between the transferors based on the capital contribution of
each transferor.
Residences. This rule applies when the property disposed of is acquired by the transferee for use by the transferee as a residence. If the amount realized on such disposition does not exceed $300,000, no withholding is
required. Otherwise, the transferee must generally withhold 10% of the amount realized by a foreign person. The
rate of withholding is 15% when the amount realized is in
excess of $1,000,000.
Foreign corporations. A foreign corporation that distributes a USRPI must withhold a tax equal to 21% of the
gain it recognizes on the distribution to its shareholders.
Domestic corporations. A domestic corporation must
withhold tax on the fair market value of the property distributed to a foreign shareholder if:

• The shareholder’s interest in the corporation is a
USRPI, and

• The property distributed is either in redemption of
stock or in liquidation of the corporation.

The corporation must generally withhold 15% of the
amount realized by a foreign person.
U.S. real property holding corporations (USRPHC).
A distribution from a domestic corporation that is a
USRPHC is generally subject to chapter 3 withholding and
Publication 515 (2026)

withholding under the USRPI provisions. This also applies
to a corporation that was a USRPHC at any time during
the shorter of the period during which the USRPI was held
or the 5-year period ending on the date of disposition. A
USRPHC can satisfy both withholding provisions if it withholds under one of the following procedures.

such a partnership or trust will be treated as an interest in
a publicly traded corporation and will be subject to the
rules applicable to those interests.

• Apply chapter 3 withholding on the full amount of the

1. A REIT, or

distribution, whether or not any part of the distribution
represents a return of basis or capital gain. If a reduced tax rate applies under an income tax treaty, see
Regulations section 1.1441-3(c)(4)(i)(A) for the minimum withholding rate that may be applicable.

• Apply chapter 3 withholding to the part of the distribution that the USRPHC estimates is a dividend. Then,
withhold 15% on the remainder of the distribution (or
on a smaller amount if a withholding certificate is obtained and the amount of the distribution that is a return of capital is established).

The same procedure must be used for all distributions
made during the year. A different procedure may be used
each year.
Partnerships. If a domestic or foreign partnership with
any foreign partners disposes of a USRPI at a gain, the
gain is treated as ECI and is generally subject to the rules
explained earlier under Partnership Withholding on ECTI.
A foreign partnership that disposes of a USRPI may credit
the taxes withheld by the transferee against the tax liability
determined under the partnership withholding on ECTI
rules.
If a foreign person disposes of an interest in a partnership in which 50% or more of the value of the gross assets
consist of USRPI and 90% or more of the value of the
gross assets consist of USRPI plus any cash or cash
equivalents, the transferee of the partnership interest must
deduct and withhold 15% of the amount realized on the
disposition.
Trusts and estates. You are a withholding agent if you
are a trustee, fiduciary, or executor of a trust or estate having one or more foreign beneficiaries. You must establish a
USRPI account. You enter in the account all gains and losses realized during the tax year of the trust or estate from
dispositions of USRPI. You must withhold 21% on any distribution to a foreign beneficiary that is attributable to the
balance in the real property interest account on the day of
the distribution. A distribution from a trust or estate to a
beneficiary (foreign or domestic) will be treated as attributable first to any balance in the USRPI account and then to
other amounts.
A trust with more than 100 beneficiaries may elect to
withhold from each distribution 21% of the amount attributable to the foreign beneficiary’s proportionate share of
the current balance of the trust’s real property interest account. This election does not apply to publicly traded
trusts or REITs. For more information about this election,
see Regulations section 1.1445-5(c).
Publicly traded partnership and trust interests. If any
class of interest in a partnership or a trust is regularly traded on an established securities market, any interest in
Publication 515 (2026)

Qualified investment entities (QIEs). Special rules apply to QIEs. A QIE is:
2. A RIC that is a USRPHC.
Look-through rule for QIEs. In most cases, any distribution from a QIE to a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or other QIE that is attributable to the QIE’s gain
from the sale or exchange of a USRPI is treated as gain
recognized by the nonresident alien, foreign corporation,
or other QIE from the sale or exchange of a USRPI.
A distribution by a QIE to a nonresident alien or foreign
corporation that is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of a USRPI by the shareholder is subject to withholding at 21%.
Certain exceptions apply to the look-through rule for
distributions by QIEs. Any distribution by a QIE with respect to stock regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States is not treated as gain from
the sale or exchange of a USRPI if the shareholder did not
own more than 5% of that stock (or more than 10% of that
stock in the case of REITs) at any time during the 1-year
period ending on the date of the distribution. A distribution
by a REIT is generally not treated as gain from the sale or
exchange of a USRPI if the shareholder is a qualified
shareholder (as described in section 897(k)(3)). These
distributions may be included in the shareholder’s gross
income as a dividend from the QIE, not as long-term capital gain.
Disposition of REIT stock. Disposition of stock in a
REIT that is held directly (or indirectly through one or more
partnerships) by a qualified shareholder may not be subject to withholding. See section 897(k)(2) for more information.
Domestically controlled QIE. The sale of an interest
in a domestically controlled QIE is not the sale of a
USRPI. The entity is domestically controlled if at all times
during the testing period less than 50% in value of its
stock was held, directly or indirectly, by foreign persons.
The testing period is the shorter of (a) the 5-year period
ending on the date of disposition, or (b) the period during
which the entity was in existence.
For the purpose of determining whether a QIE is domestically controlled, the following rules apply.
1. A person holding less than 5% of any class of stock of
a QIE that is regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States at all times during the
testing period will be treated as a U.S. person unless
the QIE has actual knowledge that such person is not
a U.S. person.
2. Any stock in a QIE that is held by another QIE will be
treated as held by a foreign person if:
a. Any class of stock of such other QIE is regularly
traded on an established securities market, or
73

b. Such other QIE is a RIC that issues certain redeemable securities.
Notwithstanding the above, the stock of the QIE will
be treated as held by a U.S. person if such other QIE
is domestically controlled.
3. Stock in a QIE that is held by any other QIE not described above will be treated as held by a U.S. person
in proportion to the stock ownership of such other QIE
that is (or is treated as) held by a U.S. person.
If a foreign shareholder in a domestically controlled QIE
disposes of an interest in the QIE in an applicable wash
sale transaction, special rules apply. See section 897 for
more information.
Retirement and pension funds. A qualified foreign pension fund or any entity wholly owned by such qualified foreign pension fund will not be treated as a foreign person
for dispositions of USRPI or distributions received from a
REIT or certain RICs described in section 897(h)(4)(A)(ii).
Qualified foreign pension funds are described in section
897(l)(2).
Additional information. For additional information on
the withholding rules that apply to corporations, trusts, estates, and qualified investment entities, see section 1445
and the related regulations. For rules applicable to partnerships, see the withholding rules discussed earlier.
Exceptions. You do not have to withhold if any of the following apply.
1. You (the transferee) acquire the property for use as a
residence and the amount realized (sales price) is not
more than $300,000. You or a member of your family
must have definite plans to reside at the property for
at least 50% of the number of days the property is
used by any person during each of the first two
12-month periods following the date of transfer. When
counting the number of days the property is used, do
not count the days the property will be vacant. For this
exception, the transferee must be an individual.
2. The property disposed of is an interest in a domestic
corporation and any class of stock of the corporation
is regularly traded on an established securities market. However, this exception does not apply to certain
dispositions of substantial amounts of non-publicly
traded interests in publicly traded corporations.
3. The disposition is of an interest in a domestic corporation and that corporation furnishes you a certification
stating, under penalties of perjury, that the interest is
not a USRPI. In most cases, the corporation can
make this certification only if either of the following is
true.

• During the previous 5 years (or, if shorter, the period the interest was held by its present owner),
the corporation was not a USRPHC.

• As of the date of disposition, the interest in the

corporation is not a USRPI by reason of section

74

897(c)(1)(B). The certification must be dated not
more than 30 days before the date of transfer.
4. The transferor gives you a certification stating, under
penalties of perjury, that the transferor is not a foreign
person and containing the transferor’s name, U.S.
TIN, and home address (or office address, in the case
of an entity). A certificate of non-foreign status includes a Form W-9 and, for qualified foreign pension
funds or entities wholly owned by qualified foreign
pension funds, Form W-8EXP.
The transferor can give the certification to a qualified substitute. The qualified substitute gives you a
statement, under penalties of perjury, that the certification is in the possession of the qualified substitute.
For this purpose, a qualified substitute is (a) the person (including any attorney or title company) responsible for closing the transaction, other than the transferor’s agent; and (b) the transferee’s agent.
5. You receive a withholding certificate from the IRS that
excuses withholding. See Withholding Certificates,
later.
6. The transferor gives you written notice that no recognition of any gain or loss on the transfer is required
because of a nonrecognition provision in the Internal
Revenue Code or a provision in a U.S. tax treaty. You
must file a copy of the notice by the 20th day after the
date of transfer with:
Ogden Service Center
P.O. Box 409101
Ogden, UT 84409
7. The amount the transferor realizes on the transfer of a
USRPI is zero.
8. The property is acquired by the United States, a U.S.
state or territory, a political subdivision, or the District
of Columbia.
9. The grantor realizes an amount on the grant or lapse
of an option to acquire a USRPI. However, you must
withhold on the sale, exchange, or exercise of that option.
10. The disposition is of an interest in a publicly traded
partnership or trust. However, this exception does not
apply to certain dispositions of substantial amounts of
non-publicly traded interests in publicly traded partnerships or trusts.
Late filing of certifications or notices. If you become aware that you have failed to timely file certain certifications or notices, you may still be able to file them. See
Revenue Procedure 2008-27, 2008-21 I.R.B. 1014, available at IRS.gov/irb/2008-21_IRB#RP-2008-27.
Complete the required certification or notice and file it
with the appropriate person or the IRS. Also, include the
following.

• A statement at the top of the document(s) that it is

“FILED PURSUANT TO Revenue Procedure 2008-27.”

• An explanation describing why the failure was due to

reasonable cause. Within the explanation, provide that
Publication 515 (2026)

you filed with, or obtained from, an appropriate person
the required certification or notice.
The completed certification or notice attached to the
explanation must be sent to:
Ogden Service Center
P.O. Box 409101
Ogden, UT 84409
Certifications. The certifications in items (3) and (4)
are not effective if you (or the qualified substitute) have actual knowledge, or receive a notice from an agent (or substitute), that they are false. This also applies to the qualified substitute’s statement under item (4).
If you (or the substitute) are required by regulations to
furnish a copy of the certification (or statement) to the IRS
and you (or the substitute) fail to do so in the time and
manner prescribed, the certification (or statement) is not
effective.
Liability of agent or qualified substitute. If you (or
the substitute) receive a certification discussed in item (3)
or (4) or a statement in item (4), and the agent, or substitute, has actual knowledge that the certification (or statement) is false, or in the case of (3), that the corporation is
a foreign corporation, the agent (or substitute) must notify
you, or the agent (or substitute) will be held liable for the
tax. The agent’s (or substitute’s) liability is limited to the
compensation the agent (or substitute) gets from the
transaction.
An agent is any person who represents the transferor or
transferee in any negotiation with another person (or another person’s agent) relating to the transaction, or in settling the transaction. A person is not treated as an agent if
the person only performs one or more of the following acts
related to the transaction.

• Receipt and disbursement of any part of the consideration.

• Recording of any document.
• Typing, copying, and other clerical tasks.
• Obtaining title insurance reports and reports concerning the condition of the property.

• Transmitting documents between the parties.

Reporting and Paying the Tax

QIEs must use Forms 1042 and 1042-S for a distribution to a nonresident alien or foreign corporation that is
treated as a dividend, as discussed earlier under qualified
investment entities (QIEs).
Form 8288. The tax withheld on the acquisition of a
USRPI from a foreign person is reported and paid over using Form 8288. Form 8288 also serves as the transmittal
form for copies A and B of Form 8288-A.
Due date. In most cases, you must file Form 8288 by the
20th day after the date of the transfer.
If an application for a withholding certificate (discussed
later) is submitted to the IRS before or on the date of a
transfer and the application is still pending with the IRS on
the date of transfer, the correct withholding tax must be
withheld but does not have to be reported and paid over
immediately. The amount withheld (or lesser amount, as
determined by the IRS) must be reported and paid over
within 20 days following the day on which a copy of the
withholding certificate or notice of denial is mailed by the
IRS.
If the principal purpose of applying for a withholding
certificate is to delay paying over the withheld tax, the
transferee will be subject to interest and penalties. The interest and penalties will be assessed for the period beginning on the 21st day after the date of transfer and ending
on the day the payment is made.
Form 8288-A. The withholding agent must prepare a
Form 8288-A for each person from whom tax has been
withheld. Attach Copies A and B of Form 8288-A to Form
8288. Keep Copy C for your records.
The IRS will stamp Copy B of Form 8288-A and will forward the stamped copy to the transferor. To receive credit
for the withheld amount, the transferor must file a U.S. income tax return and attach the stamped Copy B of Form
8288-A to the U.S. income tax return. See the Instructions
for Form 8288 for more information.
Caution: The stamped Copy B of Form 8288-A will not be
provided to the transferor if the transferor’s TIN is not included on that form. The IRS will send a letter to the transferor requesting the TIN and providing instructions for how
to get a TIN. When the transferor provides the IRS with a
TIN, the IRS will provide the transferor with the stamped
Copy B of Form 8288-A.

Transferees must use Forms 8288 and 8288-A to report
and pay over any tax withheld on the acquisition of a
USRPI. These forms must also be used by corporations,
estates, and QIEs that must withhold tax on distributions
and other transactions involving a USRPI. You must include the U.S. TIN of both the transferor and the transferee on the forms.

Form 1099-S. In most cases, the real estate broker or
other person responsible for closing the transaction must
report the sale of the property to the IRS using Form
1099-S, Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions. For
more information about Form 1099-S, see the Instructions
for Form 1099-S and Pub. 1099.

For partnerships disposing of a USRPI, the manner of
reporting and paying over the tax withheld is the same as
discussed earlier under partnership withholding on ECTI.

Withholding Certificates

Publicly traded trusts must use Forms 1042 and
1042-S to report and pay over tax withheld on distributions
from dispositions of a USRPI.
Publication 515 (2026)

The amount that must be withheld from the disposition of
a USRPI can be adjusted by a withholding certificate issued by the IRS. The transferee, the transferee’s agent, or
the transferor may request a withholding certificate. The
75

IRS will generally act on these requests within 90 days after receipt of a complete application including the TINs of
all the parties to the transaction. A transferor that applies
for a withholding certificate must notify the transferee, in
writing, that the certificate has been applied for on the day
of or the day before the transfer.
A withholding certificate may be issued due to:
1. A determination by the IRS that reduced withholding
is appropriate because either:
a. The amount that must be withheld would be more
than the transferor’s maximum tax liability, or
b. Withholding of the reduced amount would not
jeopardize collection of the tax;
2. The exemption from U.S. tax of all gain realized by the
transferor; or
3. An agreement for the payment of tax providing security for the tax liability, entered into by the transferee or
transferor.
Applications for withholding certificates are divided into
six basic categories. This categorizing provides for specific information that is needed to process the applications. The six categories are:
1. Applications based on a claim that the transferor is
entitled to nonrecognition treatment or is exempt from
tax,
2. Applications based solely on a calculation of the
transferor’s maximum tax liability,
3. Applications under special installment sales rules,
4. Applications based on an agreement for the payment
of tax with conforming security,
5. Applications for blanket withholding certificates, and
6. Applications on any other basis.
Records you should keep. The applicant must make
available to the IRS, within the time prescribed, all information required to verify that representations relied upon
in accepting the agreement are accurate, and that the obligations assumed by the applicant will be performed pursuant to the agreement. Failure to provide requested information promptly will usually result in rejection of the
application, unless the IRS grants an extension of the target date.
Categories (1), (2), and (3). Use Form 8288-B to apply
for a withholding certificate. Follow the instructions for the
form.
Categories (4), (5), and (6). Do not use Form 8288-B
for applications under categories (4), (5), and (6). For
these categories, follow the instructions next and under
the specific category.
All applications for withholding certificates must use the
following format. The information must be provided in
paragraphs labeled to correspond with the numbers and
letters set forth below. If the information requested does
not apply, place “N/A” in the relevant space.
76

1. Information on the application category:
a. State which category (4, 5, or 6) describes the application,
b. If a category (4) application:
i. State whether the proposed agreement secures (A) the transferor’s maximum tax liability,
or (B) the amount that would otherwise have to
be withheld; and
ii. State whether the proposed agreement and
security instrument conform to the standard
formats.
2. Information on the transferee or transferor:
a. State the name, address, and TIN of the person
applying for the withholding certificate (if this person does not have a TIN and is eligible for an ITIN,
they can apply for the ITIN by attaching the application to a completed Form W-7 and forwarding
the package to the address given in the Form W-7
instructions);
b. State whether that person is the transferee or
transferor; and
c. State the name, address, and TIN of all other
transferees and transferors of the USRPI for which
the withholding certificate is sought.
3. Information on the USRPI for which the withholding
certificate is sought. State the:
a. Type of interest (such as interest in real property,
in associated personal property, or in a domestic
USRPHC);
b. Contract price;
c. Date of transfer;
d. Location and general description (if an interest in
real property);
e. Class or type and amount of the interest in a
USRPHC; and
f. Whether in the 3 preceding tax years (1) U.S. income tax returns were filed relating to the USRPI
and, if so, when and where those returns were
filed and, if not, why returns were not filed, and (2)
U.S. income taxes were paid relating to the USRPI
and, if so, the amount of tax paid.
4. Provide full information concerning the basis for the
issuance of the withholding certificate. Although the
information to be included in this section of the application will vary from case to case, the rules shown under the specific category provide general guidelines
for the inclusion of appropriate information for that category.
The application must be signed by one of the following.
a. The individual.
b. A responsible officer in the case of a corporation.
Publication 515 (2026)

c. A general partner in the case of a partnership.
d. A trustee, an executor, or an equivalent fiduciary in
the case of a trust or estate.
e. A duly authorized agent (with a copy of the power
of attorney, such as Form 2848, attached).
The person signing the application must verify under
penalties of perjury that all representations are true, correct, and complete to that person’s knowledge and belief.
If the application is based in whole or in part on information provided by another party to the transaction, that information must be supported by a written verification
signed under penalties of perjury by that party and attached to the application.
Send applications to the:
Ogden Service Center
P.O. Box 409101
Ogden, UT 84409
Category (4) applications. If the application is based on
an agreement for the payment of tax, the application must
include:

Category (5) applications. A blanket withholding certificate may be issued if the transferor holding the USRPI
provides an irrevocable letter of credit or a guarantee and
enters into a tax payment and security agreement with the
IRS. A blanket withholding certificate excuses withholding
concerning multiple dispositions of those property interests by the transferor or the transferor’s legal representative during a period of no more than 12 months.
For more information, see section 9 of Revenue Procedure 2000-35.
Category (6) applications. These are nonstandard applications and may be of the following types.
Agreement for payment of tax with nonconforming
security. An applicant seeking to enter into an agreement
for the payment of tax but wanting to provide a nonconforming type of security must include the following in the
application.
1. The information required for category (4) applications,
discussed earlier.
2. A description of the nonconforming security proposed
by the applicant.

• Information establishing the transferor’s maximum tax

3. A memorandum of law and facts establishing that the
proposed security is valid and enforceable and that it
adequately protects the government’s interest.

• A signed copy of the agreement proposed by the ap-

Other nonstandard applications. An application for
a withholding certificate not previously described must explain in detail the proposed basis for the issuance of the
certificate and set forth the reasons justifying the issuance
of a certificate on that basis.

liability, or the amount that otherwise has to be withheld;

plicant; and

• A copy of the security instrument proposed by the applicant.

Either the transferee or the transferor may enter into an
agreement for the payment of tax. The agreement is a
contract between the IRS and any other person and consists of two necessary elements. Those elements are:

• A detailed description of the rights and obligations of
each, and

• A security instrument or other form of security acceptable to the Commissioner or his delegate.

For more information on the agreement for the payment
of tax, including a sample agreement, see section 5 of
Revenue Procedure 2000-35, 2000-35 I.R.B. 211, available at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb00-35.pdf.
There are four major types of security acceptable to the
IRS. They are:

• Bond with surety or guarantor,
• Bond with collateral,
• Letter of credit, and
• Guarantee (corporate transferors).
The IRS may, in unusual circumstances and at its discretion, accept any additional form of security that it finds
to be adequate.
For more information on acceptable security instruments, including sample forms of these instruments, see
section 6 of Revenue Procedure 2000-35.

Publication 515 (2026)

Amendments to Applications
An applicant for a withholding certificate may amend an
otherwise complete application by sending an amending
statement to the address shown earlier in withholding certificates. There is no particular form required, but the
amending statement must provide the following information.

• The name, address, and TIN of the person providing

the amending statement specifying whether that person is the transferee or transferor.

• The date of the original application for a withholding
certificate that is being amended.

• A brief description of the real property interest for

which the original application for a withholding certificate was provided.

• The basis for the amendment including any change in
the facts supporting the original application for a withholding certificate and any change in the terms of the
withholding certificate.

The statement must be signed and accompanied by a
penalties of perjury statement.
If an amending statement is provided, the time in which
the IRS must act upon the application is extended by 30
days. If the amending statement substantially changes the
77

original application, the time for acting upon the application is extended by 60 days. If an amending statement is
received after the withholding certificate has been signed,
but before it has been mailed to the applicant, the IRS will
have a 90-day extension of time in which to act.

Definitions
Chapter 4 withholding rate pool. A “chapter 4 withholding rate pool” means a pool of payees that are nonparticipating FFIs provided on a chapter 4 withholding
statement (as described in Regulations section
1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B)(3)) to which a withholdable payment
is allocated. The term also means a pool of payees provided on an FFI withholding statement (as described in
Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(iii)(B)(2)) to which a withholdable payment is allocated to (a) a pool of payees consisting of each class of recalcitrant account holders described in Regulations section 1.1471-4(d)(6) (or with
respect to an FFI that is a QI, a single pool of recalcitrant
account holders), including a separate pool of account
holders to which the escrow procedures for dormant accounts apply; or (b) a pool of payees that are U.S. persons
as described in Regulations section 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B)
(2) (including such a pool allocated to a reportable amount
on a withholding statement provided solely for chapter 3
purposes).
Deemed-compliant FFI. A “deemed-compliant FFI”
means an FFI that is treated, pursuant to section 1471(b)
(2) and Regulations section 1.1471-5(f), as meeting the
requirements of section 1471(b). The term “deemed-compliant FFI” includes a nonreporting IGA FFI (as defined in
Regulations section 1.1471-1(b)(83)).
Dividend equivalents. To the extent specified in section
871(m) and the regulations thereunder, a “dividend equivalent” is a payment (within the meaning of Regulations
section 1.871-15(i)) that, directly or indirectly, is contingent
on, or determined by reference to, the payment of a dividend from U.S. sources, including pursuant to a securities
lending or sale-repurchase transaction, a specified notional principal contract, or a specified equity-linked instrument.
Note: There may be a dividend equivalent payment
even if there is not an actual distribution or transfer of cash
or property.
Certain other payments made by the withholding agent
to satisfy a tax liability with respect to a dividend equivalent by the party receiving the dividend equivalent are dividend equivalents.
See Regulations section 1.871-15 for additional information, including the definitions of a specified notional
principal contract and specified equity-linked instrument.
Any section 871(m) amount of a QDD is treated as a
dividend equivalent. See Rev. Proc. 2022-43 for additional
information, including the definition of a section 871(m)
amount and Notice 2024-44, which provides that a QDD is
78

required to begin computing its section 871(m) amount in
2027.
Exempt beneficial owner. An “exempt beneficial owner”
is any person described in Regulations sections
1.1471-6(b) through (g) and includes any person treated
as an exempt beneficial owner under an applicable Model
1 IGA or Model 2 IGA.
Financial institution (FI). A “financial institution” (FI) is
any institution that is a depository institution, custodial institution, investment entity, insurance company (or holding
company of an insurance company) that issues cash
value insurance or annuity contracts, or a holding company or treasury center that is part of an expanded affiliated group of certain FFIs, and includes a financial institution, as defined under an applicable Model 1 IGA or Model
2 IGA. See Regulations section 1.1471-5(e)(1).
Foreign financial institution (FFI). Except as otherwise
provided for certain foreign branches of a U.S. financial institution or territory financial institutions, a “foreign financial institution” (FFI) means a financial institution that is a
foreign entity. The term “FFI” also includes a foreign
branch of a U.S. financial institution with a QI agreement in
effect.
Model 1 IGA. A “Model 1 IGA” means an agreement between the United States or the Treasury Department and a
foreign government or one or more foreign agencies to implement FATCA through reporting by FIs to such foreign
government or agency thereof, followed by automatic exchange of the reported information with the IRS. For a list
of jurisdictions treated as having an IGA in effect, go to
Treasury.gov/Resource-Center/Tax-Policy/Treaties/Pages/
FATCA.aspx.
Model 2 IGA. A “Model 2 IGA” means an agreement or
arrangement between the United States or the Treasury
Department and a foreign government or one or more foreign agencies to implement FATCA through reporting by
FIs directly to the IRS in accordance with the requirements
of the FFI agreement, as modified by an applicable Model
2 IGA, supplemented by the exchange of information between such foreign government or agency thereof and the
IRS. For a list of jurisdictions treated as having an IGA in
effect, go to Treasury.gov/Resource-Center/Tax-Policy/
Treaties/Pages/FATCA.aspx.
Non-financial foreign entity (NFFE). A “non-financial
foreign entity” (NFFE) is a foreign entity that is not a financial institution. An NFFE includes a territory NFFE, as defined in Regulations section 1.1471-1(b)(132), and a foreign entity treated as an NFFE pursuant to a Model 1 IGA
or Model 2 IGA.
Nonparticipating FFI. A “nonparticipating FFI” is an FFI
other than a participating FFI, a deemed-compliant FFI, or
an exempt beneficial owner.
Participating FFI. A “participating FFI” is an FFI that has
agreed to comply with the requirements of an FFI agreement with respect to all branches of the FFI, other than a
Publication 515 (2026)

branch that is a reporting Model 1 FFI or a U.S. branch.
The term “participating FFI” also includes a reporting
Model 2 FFI and a QI branch of a U.S. financial institution,
unless such branch is a reporting Model 1 FFI.
Passive NFFE. A “passive NFFE” is an NFFE that is not
an excepted NFFE. With respect to a reporting Model 2
FFI filing a Form 8966 to report its accounts and payees, a
passive NFFE is an NFFE that is not an active NFFE (as
described in the applicable IGA).
Qualified derivatives dealer (QDD). A “qualified derivatives dealer” (QDD) is a QI that is an eligible entity (as defined in Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(6)(ii)) that agrees
to meet the requirements of Regulations section
1.1441-1(e)(6)(i) and the QI agreement.
To act as a QDD, the home office or branch, as applicable, must qualify and be approved for QDD status and
must represent itself as a QDD on its Form W-8IMY and
separately identify the home office or branch as the recipient on a withholding statement. Each home office or
branch that obtains QDD status is treated as a separate
QDD. See Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(6) and Rev.
Proc. 2022-43 for more information.
Recalcitrant account holder. A “recalcitrant account
holder” is an account holder (other than an account holder
that is an FFI or is presumed to be an FFI) of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that has failed
to provide the FFI maintaining its account with the information required under Regulations section 1.1471-5(g).
Registered deemed-compliant FFI. A “registered
deemed-compliant FFI” is an FFI described in Regulations
section 1.1471-5(f)(1) and includes a reporting Model 1
FFI and a QI branch of a U.S. financial institution that is a
reporting Model 1 FFI.
Reporting Model 1 FFI. A “reporting Model 1 FFI” is an
FI, including a foreign branch of a U.S. financial institution,
treated as a reporting financial institution under a Model 1
IGA.
Reporting Model 2 FFI. A “reporting Model 2 FFI” is an
FFI described in a Model 2 IGA that has agreed to comply
with the requirements of an FFI agreement with respect to
a branch.
Territory financial institution. A “territory financial institution” is a financial institution that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any U.S. territory, excluding a
territory entity that is a financial institution only because it
is an investment entity, as defined in Regulations section
1.1471-5(e)(4).
Withholdable payment. A “withholdable payment” is a
payment described in Regulations section 1.1473-1(a).
See Income Subject to Withholding, earlier, for a discussion of which payments qualify as withholdable payments.

Publication 515 (2026)

Tax Treaties
The United States has bilateral income tax treaties, also
known as “conventions,” with a number of foreign countries under which residents (sometimes limited to citizens)
of those countries are taxed at a reduced rate or are exempt from U.S. income taxes on certain income received
from within the United States.
Withholding at source under the statutory rules discussed in this publication may not be required, or may be
required at a reduced rate, for income that is subject to a
reduced rate or exempt under a tax treaty, so long as the
taxpayer claiming such exemption satisfies all of the relevant requirements, including providing to its withholding
agent any applicable withholding certificates (or documentary evidence, when permitted) supporting the treaty
claim.
Obtaining treaty information. You can obtain the full
text of these treaties, and accompanying technical explanations, at IRS.gov/BusinessTreaties.
Detailed information about treaty provisions can be
found at IRS.gov/IndividualTreaties.
Tax treaty tables. The tax treaty tables previously contained in this publication have been updated and moved to
IRS.gov/TreatyTables.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

79

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov,
you can get up-to-date information on current events and
changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

80

will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on
the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others
should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For
more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to
Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
Publication 515 (2026)

• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.

Publication 515 (2026)

Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.
81

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

Caution: It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our system, and
processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

vice to check your refund status.

Caution: The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional child
tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not
just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

82

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
Publication 515 (2026)

makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

Publication 515 (2026)

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

83

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

10% owners 42
501(c) organizations 58
80/20 company 44

A

Acceptance agent 59
Accounts, offshore 15
Alien:
Defined 12
Illegal 50
Nonresident alien 12
Resident alien 12
Alimony 47
American Samoa 12
Amount to withhold 4
Determining the 69
Annuities 47
Artists and athletes:
Earnings of 56
Special events and promotions 56
Assistance (See Tax help)
Awards 49

B

Backup withholding 5
Banks, interest received by 42
Beneficial owner 15
Beneficiary of foreign trust 25
Bonds sold between interest
dates 44
Branch profits tax 45

D

Deemed-compliant FFI 78
Dependent personal services 53
Defined 53
Exempt from withholding 53
Depositing taxes:
How to 60
When to 60
Deposits 43
Determining the amount to
withhold 69
Disregarded entities 6
Dividend equivalent payments 46
Dividend Equivalents 46
Dividends:
Direct dividend rate 45
Domestic corporation 44
Foreign corporations 45
In general 44
Documentary evidence 16, 29, 31
Documentation 13-34
For chapter 3 13
For chapter 4 13
From foreign beneficial owners and
U.S. payees 13
From foreign intermediaries and
foreign flow-through entities 17
Presumptions in the absence of 34

E

Effectively connected income:
Defined 38
C
Foreign partners 64
Canada 54, 62
Partnerships 5
Capital gains 46
EFTPS 61
Central withholding agreements 56 Electronic deposit rules 61
Chapter 3 withholding 3-13
Employees 36, 52
Income subject to 34
Employer 52
Payees 7
Exceptions to withholding on
transfers of non-PTP
Persons subject to 6
interests 68
Chapter 4 withholding 4-13
Exempt
beneficial owner 78
Payees 7
Persons subject to 6
F
Withholding rate pool 78
FATCA report 5
Withholding statement 18
Federal unemployment tax 53
Charitable organizations 13
Fellowship grants 48
Commonwealth of the Northern
Fellowships 36
Mariana Islands (CNMI) 12
Financial institution (FI) 78
Consent dividends 45
Financial institutions 10
Contingent interest 42
FIRPTA withholding 6, 72
Controlled foreign corporations:
Fiscally transparent entity 8
Interest paid to 42
Fixed or determinable annual or
Covenant not to compete 38
periodic income 37
Crew members 36
Flow-through entities 7

84

Foreign:
501(c) organizations 58
Bank 10, 39
Charitable organizations 13
Corporations 12
Governments 58
Insurance company 10, 39
Intermediary, payee 9
Organizations and associations 13
Partner 64
Partnerships, payee 7
Private foundation 13, 58
Status 28
Trusts, payee 8
Foreign financial institution
(FFI) 78
Foreign person 12
Form:
1042 5, 23, 25, 62
1042-S 5, 23, 25, 62
1099 5
1099-S 75
7004 63
8233 50
8288 75
8288-A 75
8288-B 76
8288-C 71
8804 65
8805 66
8813 66
8833 15
8966 5
940 53
941 53
972 45
SS-4 59
W-2 53
W-4 48, 50, 53
W-7 59
W-8 series 15
W-8BEN 15, 16
W-8BEN-E 17
W-8ECI 16, 17
W-8EXP 17
W-8IMY 17
W-9 14, 59
Forms for paying and reporting
section 1446(f)(1)
withholding 70
FUTA 53

G

Gambling winnings 56
Global intermediary identification
number (GIIN) 31, 60
Graduated rates 55
Publication 515 (2026)

Graduated withholding 51
Grants 36, 48, 49
Green card test 12
Guam 12

42 Earnings as an artist or
athlete—no central withholding
agreement 56
43 Earnings as an artist or
athlete—central withholding
agreement 56
I
Independent personal services:
Identification number, taxpayer 59,
Defined 50
66
Exempt from withholding 50
Income:
Indirect
account holders 31
Fixed or determinable annual or
Installment
payment 38, 65
periodical 37
Insurance
proceeds
38
Interest 39
Interest:
Notional principal contract 39
Contingent 42
Other than effectively connected 39
Controlled foreign corporations 42
Pensions 37
Deposits 43
Personal service 35
Foreign business arrangements 43
Source of 35
Foreign corporations 42
Transportation 57
Income 39
Income code:
Portfolio 40, 42
01 Interest paid by U.S.
Real property mortgages 42
obligors—general 39
Intermediary:
02 Interest paid on real property
Foreign 9
mortgages 42
Nonqualified 10
03 Interest paid to controlling foreign
corporations 42
Qualified 9, 10, 18
04 Interest paid by foreign
International organizations 58
corporations 42
IRS Direct Pay 61
06 Dividends paid by U.S.
ITIN 59
corporations—general 44
07 Dividends qualifying for direct
K
dividend rate 45
Knowledge, standards of 27
08 Dividends paid by foreign
corporations 45
L
09 Capital gains 46
Liability of withholding agent 4
10 Industrial royalties 46
11 Motion picture or television
M
copyright royalties 47
Marketable securities 15
12 Other royalties (for example,
copyright, software,
Mexico 54
broadcasting, endorsement
Model 1 IGA 78
payments) 47
Model 2 IGA 78
14 Real property income and
Mortgages 42
natural resources royalties 47
Multi-level marketing 36
15 Pensions, annuities, alimony 47
16 Scholarship or fellowship
N
grants 48
Non-financial
foreign entity
17 Compensation for independent
(NFFE)
78
personal services 50
Non-registered obligations 41
18 Compensation for dependent
Nonparticipating
FFI 78
personal services 53
Nonqualified intermediary 21
19 Compensation for teaching 55
Alternative withholding
20 Compensation during studying
procedure 22
and training 55
Chapter
4 withholding rate pool 22
23 Other Income 57
Defined
10
24 Qualified investment entity (QIE)
For chapter 3 purposes 21
distributions of capital gains 44
For chapter 4 purposes 21
27 Publicly traded partnership
Pooled withholding 22
distributions subject to IRC
section 1446(a) 66
Withholding statement 21
28 Gambling winnings 56
Nonresident alien:
29 Deposit Interest 43
Defined 12
30 Original issue discount (OID) 40
Married to U.S. citizen or
resident 12
41 Guarantee of indebtedness 57
Who becomes a resident alien 49

Publication 515 (2026)

Nonwage pay 52
Notional principal contract
income 39

O

Obligations:
Not in registered form 41
Registered 41
Offshore accounts 15
Original issue discount 40
Overwithholding, adjustment for 61

P

Participating FFI 18, 78
Partner, foreign 64, 66
Partnerships:
Effectively connected income of
foreign partners 64
Foreign payee 7
Publicly traded 66
Withholding foreign 11, 23
Passive NFFE 79
Pay for personal services:
Artists and athletes 56
Dependent personal services 53
Employees 51
Exempt from withholding 50
Independent personal services 50
Salaries and wages 51
Scholarship or fellowship
recipient 48
Studying 55
Teaching 55
Training 55
Payee:
Charitable organizations 13
Fiscally transparent entity 8
Foreign flow-through entities 17
Foreign intermediaries 17
Foreign partnerships 7
Foreign trusts 8
Identifying 6
Nonqualified intermediary 10
Organizations and associations 13
Private foundations 13
Qualified intermediary 10
U.S branches of foreign persons 13
Penalties:
Deposit 61
Form 1042 63
Form 8804 66
Form 8805 66
Trust fund recovery 53
Pensions 37, 47
Per diem 49
Personal service income 35
Pooled withholding information 22
Portfolio interest 40, 42
Presumption rules:
Corporation 34
Individual 34
85

Partnership 34
Trust 34
Private foundation, foreign 13
Prizes 49
Publications (See Tax help)
Puerto Rico 12, 54

Q

QI agreement 10
Qualified derivatives dealer
(QDD) 79
Qualified intermediary:
Agency option 20
Collective refund procedures 21
Defined 18
Joint account treatment 20
Payee 10
Reporting on Form 1042-S 21
Responsibilities and
documentation 19
Qualified investment entity (QIE):
Distributions paid by 73
Dividends paid by 44

R

Racing purses 38
Real property interest:
Disposition of 72
Withholding certificates 75
Withholding obligation 6
Reason to know 27
Recalcitrant account holder 79
Registered deemed-compliant
FFI 18, 79
Registered obligations 41
Reporting and paying the tax 65
Reporting Model 1 FFI 79
Reporting Model 2 FFI 79
Researchers 55
Resident alien, defined 12
Returns required 61
Royalties 46, 47
Ryukyu Islands 44

S

Salaries 51
Saving clause 49
Scholarships 36, 48
Section 1446(f) Withholding 67
Section 1446(f)(1) withholding 70
Sections 1446(a) and (f)
withholding 14
Securities 38
Securities, marketable 15
Services performed outside the
U.S. 53

86

Short-term obligation 44
Source of income 35
Standards of knowledge:
For chapter 3 27
For chapter 4 31
Substantial presence test 12

W

Wages:
Paid to employees 51
Pay that is not 52
When to withhold 4
Withhold, amount to 4
T
Withhold, when to 4
Tax help 79
Withholdable payment 4, 6, 79
Tax treaties (See Treaties)
Withholding:
Tax-exempt entities 58
Agreements 50, 56
Taxpayer identification number
Certificate 27, 31
(TIN) 59, 66
Chapter 3 3
Exceptions 59
Chapter 4 4
Teachers 55
In general 3
Ten-percent owners 42
On specific income 38
Territorial limits 36
Rate pool 22, 78
Territory financial institution 79
Real property 72
Transfers of partnership interests
Reporting and paying 65
subject to withholding under
Withholding agent 3
sections 1445(e)(5) and 1446(f)
Liability 4
(1) 70
Returns required 61
Transportation income 57
Tax deposit requirements 60
Travel expenses 51
Withholding exemptions and
Treaties:
reductions:
Claiming benefits for chapter 3 15
Dependent personal services 53
Dependent personal services 54
Exemption 38
Entertainers and athletes 56
Final payment exemption 50
Gains 46
Foreign governments 58
Independent personal services 51
International organizations 58
Rate tables 79
Real property interest 75
Students 49, 55
Researchers 55
Teaching 55
Scholarships and fellowship
Trainees 55
grants 48
Trust Territory of the Pacific
Students 55
Islands 44
Withholding agreements 50, 56
Trusts:
Withholding foreign partnership
Foreign payee 8
(WP):
Withholding foreign 11, 25
Agency option 24
Collective refund procedures 23
U
Joint account treatment 23
U.S. agent of foreign person 6
Not acting as WP 25
U.S. branch:
Withholding foreign trust (WT):
Foreign bank 10, 39
Agency option 26
Foreign insurance company 10, 39
Collective refund procedures 25
Foreign person 13
Joint account treatment 26
U.S. real property interest (See Real
Not acting as WT 27
property interest)
Reporting U.S. beneficiaries 25
U.S. savings bonds 44
Responsibilities of 25
U.S. territorial limits 36
Withholding on transfers of
U.S. territory, resident of 12
non-PTP interests, exceptions
U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI) 12
to 68
Unexpected payment 59
Withholding under sections
1445(e)(5) and 1446(f)(1) 70

Publication 515 (2026)

